# Basic Information:
### Title:  EKF log analysis scripts crashing #21686 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: tylertian123
### Issue open time: Jun 6, 2023
### Fixed by: #21717
# Report
### Report author: tylertian123
### Report Time: Jun 6, 2023
### Report Content:   
Describe the bug  
Following the documentation here I tried using the scripts process_logdata_ekf.py and batch_process_logdata_ekf.py at Tools/ecl_ekf to analyze EKF performance in my log files. However, when I ran it on my log file, the script exited with an exception about 'reject_mag_x'.  
I'm on PX4 v1.14.0-beta2 (commit 18898f1). Both the script and the logfile are from the same version.  
To Reproduce  
Steps to reproduce the behavior:  
1.Download the logfile attached  
2.Run the script python3 Tools/ecl_ekf/process_logdata_ekf.py <logfile>  
3.Script crashes without creating any output  
Expected behavior  
I expected plots and metadata to be generated according to the documentation.  
Log Files and Screenshots  
Log file: https://logs.px4.io/plot_app?log=eb988feb-08ae-4957-89a9-2257532c0916  
If I modify the script to print out the exception stacktrace, this is what I get (by default the script exits after the 'reject_mag_x' line):  
    
```bash     
 found estimator_selector_status (multi-ekf) data        
6 ekf instances        
Using test criteria loaded from /home/tyler/utat/sae/sae_fs/PX4-Autopilot/Tools/ecl_ekf/check_level_dict.csv        
estimator instance: 0        
'reject_mag_x'        
Traceback (most recent call last):        
  File "process_logdata_ekf.py", line 186, in <module>        
    main()        
  File "process_logdata_ekf.py", line 168, in main        
    test_results = process_logdata_ekf(        
  File "process_logdata_ekf.py", line 124, in process_logdata_ekf        
    master_status, check_status, metrics, airtime_info = analyse_ekf(        
  File "/home/tyler/utat/sae/sae_fs/PX4-Autopilot/Tools/ecl_ekf/analyse_logdata_ekf.py", line 75, in analyse_ekf        
    metrics = calculate_ecl_ekf_metrics(        
  File "/home/tyler/utat/sae/sae_fs/PX4-Autopilot/Tools/ecl_ekf/analysis/metrics.py", line 22, in calculate_ecl_ekf_metrics        
    innov_fail_metrics = calculate_innov_fail_metrics(        
  File "/home/tyler/utat/sae/sae_fs/PX4-Autopilot/Tools/ecl_ekf/analysis/metrics.py", line 128, in calculate_innov_fail_metrics        
    innov_fail_metrics[result] = calculate_stat_from_signal(        
  File "/home/tyler/utat/sae/sae_fs/PX4-Autopilot/Tools/ecl_ekf/analysis/metrics.py", line 193, in calculate_stat_from_signal        
    return stat_function(data[variable][in_air_det.get_airtime(dataset)])        
KeyError: 'reject_mag_x'        
```  
Drone (please complete the following information):  
Large fixed wing. FCU is a CubePilot Orange, using the internal IMUs.  
Additional context  
The main propulsion motor is quite large so it likely created a lot of magnetic interference, so there were a lot of EKF magnetometer errors when throttle changes significantly as can be see in the logs.  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: duckythescientist
### Comment Time: Jun 7, 2023
### Comment Content:   
I don't know if this is correct, but I'm wondering if the logging format changed but the analysis script hasn't been updated.  reject_mag_x isn't a key in the log datasets, but fs_bad_mag_x is and from a cursory glance performs a similar function. If I change all references from reject_mag_* to fs_bad_mag_* under Tools/ecl_ekf then I can get the PDFs to generate without complaints.  
I also had to use the suggested fix in \\\#21429  

## Comment2
### Comment author: tylertian123
### Comment Time: Jun 9, 2023
### Comment Content:   
@duckythescientist Thanks a lot for the tip! I managed to get it working for the time being by adding the changes you suggested. Hope this gets updated soon but at least in the meantime I can proceed with the analysis.  

## Comment3
### Comment author: bresch
### Comment Time: Jun 11, 2023
### Comment Content:   
@duckythescientist Yes, we forgot to update the analysis script. Could you please make a PR with your changes?  
