# Basic Information:
### Title:  Preflightcheck to require valid mission broken #13455 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: cmic0
### Issue open time: Nov 13, 2019
# Report
### Report author: cmic0
### Report Time: Nov 13, 2019
### Report Content:   
Describe the bug    
While testing this PR \\\#13454 in SITL, I realized I was able to take off without a mission even if COM_ARM_MIS_REQ was enabled.  
I checked  vehicle_status_flags.condition_auto_mission_available and seems that is always true.    
With further analysis i ended up here    
https://github.com/PX4/Firmware/blob/master/src/modules/navigator/mission.cpp\\\#L1652  
where seems  that checkMissionFeasible reports true.  
To Reproduce    
Steps to reproduce the behavior:  
1.Laungh SITL  
2.Clean mission from vehicle  
3.Set COM_ARM_MIS_REQto 1  
4.Try to arm.  
Expected behavior    
Arming should be denied as no mission is available on the vehicle.    
In reality you can still arm  
The issue is only reproducible in SITL. On a real HW works fine  
FYI @julianoes  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: stale
### Comment Time: Feb 13, 2020
### Comment Content:   
This issue has been automatically marked as stale because it has not had recent activity. Thank you for your contributions.  

## Comment2
### Comment author: julianoes
### Comment Time: Feb 14, 2020
### Comment Content:   
@MaEtUgR more pre-arm check things...  

## Comment3
### Comment author: stale
### Comment Time: May 15, 2020
### Comment Content:   
This issue has been automatically marked as stale because it has not had recent activity. Thank you for your contributions.  

## Comment4
### Comment author: MaEtUgR
### Comment Time: Oct 12, 2020
### Comment Content:   
I cannot reproduce this (anymore). Trying SITL jmavsim:  
- vehicle_status_flags.condition_auto_mission_available correctly represents the mission status when uploading and clearing it.  
- COM_ARM_MIS_REQ gets taken over correctly into the _arm_reqwuirements in commander without reboot  
- when running commander check on the shell the preflight checks pass because the arm requirements get overridden with no requirements since the command does not have access to the state of commander: https://github.com/PX4/Firmware/blob/2b5b6b943083b92d5870fb2d6a902d4f11a59997/src/modules/commander/Commander.cpp\\\#L309 We should do the check within commander and just pass back the result.  
Generally, this issue seems fixed with the caveat that commander check does not show the result properly which is a different issue.  
