# Basic Information:
### Title:  Violent jerk when switching from manual to position mode #13415 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: dakejahl
### Issue open time: Nov 7, 2019
### Fixed by: #13522
# Report
### Report author: dakejahl
### Report Time: Nov 7, 2019
### Report Content:   
Firmware: 1.9.2 (with \\\#13312 and \\\#13325)  
Describe the bug    
I'm seeing huge pitch/roll setpoints when switching from manual to position mode . It seems like it's the velocity controller, but I don't really understand how the velocity controller ends up demanding such large effort of the attitude controller. I've detuned the P gain on the velocity controller and am still seeing a violent jerk when switching from manual to position. Here's a log with 3 mode switch, the first one being the most violent.  
To Reproduce    
Steps to reproduce the behavior:  
1.Switch from manual to position mode. The more velocity you have before the switch, the more violent the jerk.  
Log Files and Screenshots    
https://review.px4.io/plot_app?log=4fa7056e-d1bc-437f-829d-0b45e3087276    
The velocity setpoints are not changing dramatically, so the attitude effort should not be there.    
@bresch @mhkabir @TSC21  
Related to \\\#12389  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: mhkabir
### Comment Time: Nov 7, 2019
### Comment Content:   
Any chance you can try v1.10?  

## Comment2
### Comment author: bresch
### Comment Time: Nov 18, 2019
### Comment Content:   
@mhkabir  It's also on master. I found out that the problem is in the initialization of the velocity controller, check on the following graph, the difference between a transition from stabilized -> position and altitude -> position:    
The Z thrust (thrust[1]) initializes at a high value.    
After discussing with @MaEtUgR , he remembered that the numerical derivative used in the D-term of the velocity controller could be badly initialized.  
I then ran a new simulation with the D gain set to 0 and there is no glitch anymore:    
@MaEtUgR Is already working on the refactoring of the position controller and will make a PR asap. I think we should also backport this fix in v1.10  
