# Basic Information:
### Title:  VTOL transitons to MC immediately after RTL #13682 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: sfuhrer
### Issue open time: Dec 5, 2019
# Report
### Report author: sfuhrer
### Report Time: Dec 5, 2019
### Report Content:   
Describe the bug    
VTOL in mission mode: when RTL is triggered after the vehicle has already reached the 2nd to last waypoint (thus having as next wp the landing waypoint), it immediately transitions to multicopter instead of proceeding flying in fixed-wing until close to landing (as it does when RTL was triggered earlier in the mission, with not landing currently as active wp).  
To Reproduce    
Plan mission in SITL with landing at end, and long distance between landing and prior wp. Trigger RTL when 2nd to last wp is already reached.  
Expected behavior    
VTOL should proceed flying in FW until close to home/land.  
Additional context    
Long flights in MC are bad for battery consumption, which is especially problematic during RTL situations where low battery s could have been the cause.  
Note: this problem shouldn't be present when the mission is planned in the recommended manner for VTOL with a DO_LAND_START marker, a loiter to altitude and then a landing wp. Maybe we should thus now try to enable to set this landing procedure in a simple manner for the pilot (similar to how it is done for FW systems).  
FYI @RomanBapst  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: julianoes
### Comment Time: Dec 5, 2019
### Comment Content:   
This only happens with RTL_TYPE = 1. From my SITL testing it looks like the normal RTL procedure is ok.  

## Comment2
### Comment author: sfuhrer
### Comment Time: Dec 18, 2019
### Comment Content:   
Yes only happens with RTL_TYPE = 1. Unfortunately this IS the normal RTL procedure for VTOLs ;)  

## Comment3
### Comment author: stale
### Comment Time: Mar 17, 2020
### Comment Content:   
This issue has been automatically marked as stale because it has not had recent activity. Thank you for your contributions.  

## Comment4
### Comment author: stale
### Comment Time: Aug 2, 2020
### Comment Content:   
This issue has been automatically marked as stale because it has not had recent activity. Thank you for your contributions.  
