# Basic Information:
### Title:  Arm tone alarms after pressed pre-arm button to disarm vehicle in fixed-wing mode-tiltrotor-v1.11.0-beta1 #14671 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: saengphet
### Issue open time: Apr 15, 2020
# Report
### Report author: saengphet
### Report Time: Apr 15, 2020
### Report Content:   
Describe the bug    
I found this issue during the tiltrotor flight test. After pre-arm button at GPS pixhawk 4 was pressed to disarm vehicle in fixed-wing mode, buzzer alarmed "long beep (arming tone)" that is the sound of "arm state" instead of only "double short beep (disarming tone)". This is so weird and makes me scared of motor spinup unintentionally (but motors did not spinup).  
To Reproduce  
1.Press pre-arm button at GPS to make vehicle ready for arming, then arm vehicle in multirotor state via RC transmitter. Motors spinup at idle PWM.  
2.zero RC throttle, then activate transition switch to fixed-wing. Motors stop spinning, tilt-servos move down to horizontal position.  
3.At fixed-wing state, press "pre-arm button again" to disarm vehicle. (because I don't want to go back to multirotor state again before disarming vehicle)  
4.You will hear the "disarming tone as double short beep" follow by "arming warning tone as long beep" suddenly. No motor spinning, tilt-servos t return to disarm position (vertical).  
ref. of tune meanings    
https://docs.px4.io/v1.9.0/en/getting_started/tunes.html  
video link:    
https://drive.google.com/file/d/13HWmceGjHeR9kE2br4Sv5yqyTqhRS3Sb/view?usp=sharing  
Expected behavior    
After press pre-arm button to disarm vehicle in fixed-wing mode, "double short beep" alarms to notice user that vehicle is going to be in disarm state. No "arm tone" until vehicle is armed by RC transmitter or QGC.  
Drone (please complete the following information):    
Describe the type of drone: Tiltrotor using E-flite Convergence airframe    
Hardware: Pixhawk4 + GPS pixhawk 4 + Holybro telemetry  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: dagar
### Comment Time: Apr 17, 2020
### Comment Content:   
Thanks for reporting.  

## Comment2
### Comment author: dagar
### Comment Time: May 6, 2020
### Comment Content:   
Would you be able to share a log file (.ulg) from boot (SDLOG_PROFILE) showing this problem?  

## Comment3
### Comment author: saengphet
### Comment Time: May 7, 2020
### Comment Content:   
    
Would you be able to share a log file (.ulg) from boot (SDLOG_PROFILE) showing this problem?    
OK, I will test it again to get the log from boot.  

## Comment4
### Comment author: stale
### Comment Time: Aug 8, 2020
### Comment Content:   
This issue has been automatically marked as stale because it has not had recent activity. Thank you for your contributions.  

## Comment5
### Comment author: LorenzMeier
### Comment Time: Jun 2, 2021
### Comment Content:   
We have reworked this since, closing.  
