# Basic Information:
### Title:  Mavlink console does not appear to be working #19831 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: BAI-djohnson
### Issue open time: Jun 23, 2022
# Report
### Report author: BAI-djohnson
### Report Time: Jun 23, 2022
### Report Content:   
Describe the bug  
I am not able to access the mavlink console in QGroundControl or through the python script in 1.13.0.  
To Reproduce  
Steps to reproduce the behavior:  
1.Flashed newest firmware (1.13.0)  
2.Open QGC  
3.Click analyze tools  
4.Click console and hit enter  
5.No response  
Expected behavior  
Expect nsh> to appear.  No response  
Drone (please complete the following information):  
- Cube Blue, Standard carrier board  
Thank you    
Dane Johnson  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: jwoloch
### Comment Time: Jun 23, 2022
### Comment Content:   
I confirm this behavior.  
Hardware: Orange Cube (on base board without ADSB, idk whether this has anything to do with this issue)    
QGC    
PX4: 1.13.0  

## Comment2
### Comment author: ecmnet
### Comment Time: Jun 24, 2022
### Comment Content:   
Might be related to commit 6d78054. I solved this on orangecube  by adding mavlink start -d /dev/ttyACM0 to rc.board_mavlink:  

## Comment3
### Comment author: BAI-djohnson
### Comment Time: Jun 24, 2022
### Comment Content:   
    
Might be related to commit 6d78054. I solved this on orangecube by adding mavlink start -d /dev/ttyACM0 to rc.board_mavlink:    
This appears to have fixed my issue.  Thank you.  

## Comment4
### Comment author: BAI-djohnson
### Comment Time: Jun 24, 2022
### Comment Content:   
    
Might be related to commit 6d78054. I solved this on orangecube by adding mavlink start -d /dev/ttyACM0 to rc.board_mavlink:    
Quick correction.  Once I enabled my app to be compiled with the software the bug persists.  Also this issue appears to only be on the USB connection.  Once connected to serial radios, it works.  

## Comment5
### Comment author: farhangnaderi
### Comment Time: Jul 13, 2022
### Comment Content:   
Same here with Cube Orange, Serial connection has no mavlink shell but over telem is fine.    
I have attached a screenshot below    

## Comment6
### Comment author: KrzysiekPx4
### Comment Time: Jul 15, 2022
### Comment Content:   
How can I add mavlink start -d /dev/ttyACM0 to rc.board_mavlink? What is the exact procedure for this operation? I am a beginner user of Orange Cube and I am asking for help.  

## Comment7
### Comment author: AlexKlimaj
### Comment Time: Jul 19, 2022
### Comment Content:   
I have a cube orange and the mavlink shell is not working on 1.13 either.  

## Comment8
### Comment author: mrpollo
### Comment Time: Jul 27, 2022
### Comment Content:   
The mavlink shell isn't working on any platform AFAIK, something is going on with the firmware builds. I know @davids5 was looking into this.  
David, are you working on an issue number?  

## Comment9
### Comment author: davids5
### Comment Time: Jul 27, 2022
### Comment Content:   
@mrpollo - No I just verified the alignment bug was not back.  

## Comment10
### Comment author: lefamz
### Comment Time: Aug 24, 2022
### Comment Content:   
I confirm the issue on Cube and Pixhawk 4. There is a simple workaround, see below.  
@KrzysiekPx4    
Create folder etc on sd card from your Cube, create file extras.txt inside etc folder (if you don't have it already for other purpose), then just add line mavlink start -d /dev/ttyACM0 to that file, save and put sd card back in Cube. It should start working now.  

## Comment11
### Comment author: david-guardian
### Comment Time: Sep 28, 2022
### Comment Content:   
This work-around only works on my set up if I boot the cube prior to it's companion computer.  

## Comment12
### Comment author: trddo
### Comment Time: Nov 19, 2022
### Comment Content:   
I have same issue on orange cube v 6.1.7600.16385 using orange cube driver  v2.0.0.10, qgroundcontrol px4  v4.2.4 even after adding mavlink start -d /dev/ttyAMC0 to extras.txt in etc. I am unclear as to how to add to    
rc.board_mavlink.    
Would be grateful for further assistance.  

## Comment13
### Comment author: sieuwe1
### Comment Time: Jan 1, 2023
### Comment Content:   
Some issue here with cube orange. I connected my cube orange to 5v with a usb adapter and used a 433mhz telemetry radio. This way the console also worked.  

## Comment14
### Comment author: krr27
### Comment Time: May 28, 2023
### Comment Content:   
I have the same issue. It started very recently, perhaps when I switched from v4.2.3 to v4.2.6 a couple of days ago.    
I tried the suggestion above (putting the etc/extras.txt file on the SD card).    
The problem occurs with two different pix32 V6s, both running FW Release 1.13.3, and OS Release 11.0.0.    
The nsh> prompt sometimes appears several minutes after pressing  (but it still doesn't respond to any additional input).    
Other QGC functions (e.g. Vehicle Setup) appear to work okay.    
Also, I can connect either of the pix32 V6s to a second PC running the same version of QGC, and MAVLink Console appears to work fine.    
Both PC's are Windows. The one that has the problem is only about a year old and is running Windows 11. The one that works is a 10-year-old laptop running Windows 10.  

## Comment15
### Comment author: krr27
### Comment Time: May 28, 2023
### Comment Content:   
The following additional issues with QGC appeared around the same time, and may be additional clues:  
- QGC usually takes a long time to start (e.g., a couple of minutes), whereas it used to start almost instantly  
- It frequently crashes, usually when I click the Disconnect button after disconnecting the flight controller (from USB).  
- When I attempt to intentionally close QGC, it often/usually stops responding, and then crashes.  
- I also tried running a version that I compiled from source, which I have been using without a problem for a couple of months, and the same problems occur.  
- In one case I got the following error message that I haven't seen before:  
- Unable to save telemetry log. Error copying to 'C:/Users/krr/Documents/QGroundControl/Telemetry/2023-05-28 13-19-06.6.tlog': 'Failure to write block'.  
- I checked that location and there are numerous similar files that were written today.  
- I just now attempted to uninstall QGC (with plans to reinstall it), and got the following Windows error message:  
- An error occurred while trying to uninstall QGroundControl. It may have already been uninstalled.  
- I did uninstall QGC v4.2.3 before installing v4.2.6 (a couple of days ago), so perhaps that's when thing went south.  

## Comment16
### Comment author: krr27
### Comment Time: May 28, 2023
### Comment Content:   
I just now fixed the issues by doing the following:  
- Manually deleted C:\Program Files\QGroundControl, and all other QGC related files that I could find (e.g., C:\Users\krr\AppData\Local\QGroundControl.org, and C:\Users\krr\AppData\Roaming\QGroundControl.org)  
- Installed GQC v4.2.3  
Since a fresh installation of v4.2.6 on a second PC appears to work correctly, I'm guessing that it's not a problem with v4.2.6, but rather the fault is in the uninstall function.  

## Comment17
### Comment author: julianoes
### Comment Time: May 29, 2023
### Comment Content:   
Thanks for the notes. I will close this issue as it should be fixed in main and v1.13. If it happens again, please open a new issue, give plenty of information and context and (at) mention me. Thanks.  

## Comment18
### Comment author: jean-dupond
### Comment Time: Jun 1, 2023
### Comment Content:   
Hello I also have this issue, I want to ask if there is finally a formal solution for this, or if it is about to be fixed in v1.13, thanks.  

## Comment19
### Comment author: lefamz
### Comment Time: Jun 1, 2023
### Comment Content:   
@jean-dupond Current PX4 stable branch v1.13.3 has problem fixed. I suggest you update to current version of PX4 and QGroundControl, don't forget to clear QGC cache etc.  
