# Basic Information:
### Title:  MRO X2.1-777 #15466 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: taileron
### Issue open time: Aug 1, 2020
### Fixed by: #15521
# Report
### Report author: taileron
### Report Time: Aug 1, 2020
### Report Content:   
Describe the bug    
after flashing PX4 to the FC, QGC doesn´t see it anymore via USB  
To Reproduce    
Steps to reproduce the behavior:    
unpack it    
QGC connects to Arduplane (ChibiOS)    
mro_x21-777_default.px4 flash successful to:    
Device: ArduPilot ChibiOS    
Version: 5    
Board ID:136    
(prebuild bin or from source)    
after the flash procedure and reboot to PX4    
QGC doesn´t find it anymore via USB    
there is also nothing special to find on the SD    
no logs available  
Expected behavior    
QGC should connect to it after reboot  
Is there an adapted boot loader available to change it from ChibiOS to NuttX ?  
also in PX4 discussion:    
https://discuss.px4.io/t/px4-on-mro-x2-1-777/17938  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: dagar
### Comment Time: Aug 3, 2020
### Comment Content:   
I'll take a look, it might be QGC not recognizing it for some reason.  

## Comment2
### Comment author: taileron
### Comment Time: Aug 3, 2020
### Comment Content:   
it seems that the boot process does not finish, the led which flashes fast for a short time before the board is ready does not stop flashing, like when the update of the IO board does never finish.    
Flashed back to ChibiOS ArduPlane, QGC connects immediately without problems just in the moment when the led stops blinking. Shouldn't the flashing of the IO take at least 10 seconds longer? QGC daily build is needed, old QGC versions do not even start the Flash procedure. QGC does not find a suitable PX4 firmware itself, neither developer nor beta you can only select a local file. The device name of the boot loader remains even for a further flash process, after PX4 should be on it still: ArduPilot ChibiOS (I´m on MacOS Dualboot: selectable Sierra 10.12.6 or Catalina 10.15.6 Windows only available as virtual machines)  

## Comment3
### Comment author: taileron
### Comment Time: Aug 6, 2020
### Comment Content:   
@dagar can I do tests with changed start scripts to look in which module the start procedure stops?    
e.g. flash a version without io-unit - check certain signals or clocks with the oscilloscope    
with AP ChibiOS it offers 2 serial ports with PX4 flashed only one port is visible that doesn´t work.  

## Comment4
### Comment author: dagar
### Comment Time: Aug 9, 2020
### Comment Content:   
Should be fixed in \\\#15521.  
