# Basic Information:
### Title:  Pixhawk get to Brick mode after selecting Quad H4 680 #10099 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: BazookaJoe1900
### Issue open time: Jul 31, 2018
# Report
### Report author: BazookaJoe1900
### Report Time: Jul 31, 2018
### Report Content:   
Describe the bug    
Playing with pixhawk 4 I have selected 'Quad H4 680' airframe on QGC.    
After that, the Pixhawk does the start-up tune, but not much more.    
There is no communication with the PC Via USB, so I can't change parameters and so.    
The only way that I found to recover the Pixhawk is by putting rc.txt on the SD card with 'param reset' commnad on it.  
To Reproduce    
select 'Quad H4 680' airframe on QGC.    
Tested twice, no other frame has been tested, or other Pixhawk HW.  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: dagar
### Comment Time: Aug 1, 2018
### Comment Content:   
Have you successfully used this airframe before?  

## Comment2
### Comment author: BazookaJoe1900
### Comment Time: Aug 2, 2018
### Comment Content:   
@dagar - No, I don't have this frame and don't use it. I just wanted to look at the parameters of that frame.  

## Comment3
### Comment author: stale
### Comment Time: Feb 4, 2019
### Comment Content:   
This issue has been automatically marked as stale because it has not had recent activity. It will be closed if no further activity occurs. Thank you for your contributions.  

## Comment4
### Comment author: stale
### Comment Time: Feb 18, 2019
### Comment Content:   
Closing as stale.  
