# Basic Information:
### Title:  the plane just fly away home in RTL mode #20465 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: kevinuav
### Issue open time: Oct 21, 2022
# Report
### Report author: kevinuav
### Report Time: Oct 21, 2022
### Report Content:   
Describe the bug  
Hey guys.    
I am using v1.13.0 stable to fly my fixedwing. But a FC's strange behavior almost make my plane lost. The plane was in RTL mode. However it just fly away from the home point. Meanwhile the setpoint of the RTL altitude changed spontaneously. It should be a bug in this version.  
To Reproduce  
Steps to reproduce the behavior:  
1.the plane is flying in any mode.2.    
2.switch the mode to RTL.    
3.the plane fly back home first.    
4.the plane just fly away home occasionally in RTL mode even you do nothing.  
Expected behavior  
the plane just fly away home occasionally in RTL mode.  
Log Files and Screenshots  
Always provide a link to the flight log file:  
- Download the flight log file from the vehicle (tutorial).  
- Upload the log to the PX4 Flight Review  
- Share the link to the log (Copy and paste the URL of the log)  
Add screenshots to help explain your problem.    
Drone (please complete the following information):  
-fixedwing    
-autopilot:CUAV's V5  
Additional context  
The plane just flighted away from home point at about 6:50 in RTL mode.  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: tstastny
### Comment Time: Oct 21, 2022
### Comment Content:   
\\\#20464  

## Comment2
### Comment author: sfuhrer
### Comment Time: Feb 15, 2023
### Comment Content:   
this should be solved with \\\#20464, please re-open if not.  
