# Basic Information:
### Title:  Achievable speed against heavy wind depends on auto vs manual #11646 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: MaEtUgR
### Issue open time: Mar 14, 2019
# Report
### Report author: MaEtUgR
### Report Time: Mar 14, 2019
### Report Content:   
Describe the bug    
I cannot be 100% sure that this also happens on master but I'm assuming this now and verify.  
To Reproduce    
Steps to reproduce the behavior:  
1.Set the mission cruise speed and the manual position full stick flight speed to the same relatively high value e.g. 10m/s  
2.Fly away from you in very heavy wind  
3.Fly back to you in manual position mode full speed against the wind    
Setpoint is full speed but you don't reach full speed because of the wind  
4.Switch to RTL which should continue flight with the cruise speed (you configured it to be the same)    
Setpoint stays the same and now you reach it  
I repeated this several times and verified it's not the wind changing drastically in between the two modes.  
Expected behavior    
You can reach the same speed in both modes even against the wind if the vehicle has enough power (which it clearly had in my case).  
Log Files and Screenshots    
https://logs.px4.io/plot_app?log=f8817dcc-abda-466a-b223-9e504e3486fd    
Drone:    
Yuneec H520  
Additional context  
- Both times it's a velocity setpoint that should be reached and it's not a feed forward to position control.  
- MPC_TILTMAX_AIR is the maximum tilt for auto and manual position flight so this should not be the reason.  
- Do the maximum rates in the rate setpoint make a difference?  
Any help or even hint is appreciated, otherwise I'll try to solve it myself.  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: stale
### Comment Time: Jun 24, 2019
### Comment Content:   
This issue has been automatically marked as stale because it has not had recent activity. It will be closed if no further activity occurs. Thank you for your contributions.  

## Comment2
### Comment author: stale
### Comment Time: Jul 8, 2019
### Comment Content:   
Closing as stale.  

## Comment3
### Comment author: stale
### Comment Time: Oct 7, 2019
### Comment Content:   
This issue has been automatically marked as stale because it has not had recent activity. Thank you for your contributions.  

## Comment4
### Comment author: MaEtUgR
### Comment Time: Feb 19, 2020
### Comment Content:   
I just checked the log again and apparently I was wrong in:  
    
- Both times it's a velocity setpoint that should be reached and it's not a feed-forward to position control.    
There is a position setpoint moving with the drone when doing RTL and that seems to be why it reaches the correct velocity. So this is not really a strange bug but a possible side effect given these setpoints and the vehicle tuning e.g. horizontal velocity integral.  
