# Basic Information:
### Title:  Drone can't Return in a planned mission in v1.11 #16299 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: moreba1
### Issue open time: Nov 29, 2020
# Report
### Report author: moreba1
### Report Time: Nov 29, 2020
### Report Content:   
Describe the bug    
In v1.11 RTL_TYPE parameter changed, which caused the Drone can not Return in a planned mission after "Land Start".    
in v1.10 with RTL_TYPE=1 (Return to a planned mission landing, if available, via a direct path, else return to home via direct path)    
every this was ok but in v1.11 RTL_TYPE=1,3 causes that drone fly directly to Land location and RTL_TYPE=2 causes that drone resume mission.  
To Reproduce    
Steps to reproduce the behavior:  
1.Select VTOL standard HI airframe.  
2.Uploaded this mission.  
3.during mission change mode to return.  
4.See error: drone fly directly to Land location and dismiss Land pattern.  
Expected behavior    
the drone must directly fly to the waypoint after the "land start" command.(planned landing pattern)  
**Log Files **    
https://logs.px4.io/plot_app?log=5b7ac051-0e0b-4be4-adc9-d8bb75717c56  
Plan  
2.zip  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: moreba1
### Comment Time: Dec 3, 2020
### Comment Content:   
I find out the reason of the problem before land start must be a waypoint. while in the survey mission the last index is not for a waypoint.    
so for solving this issue we can do one of this method:    
1- Add a waypoint between the survey and land start.    
2- Edit code  

## Comment2
### Comment author: moreba1
### Comment Time: Jan 31, 2021
### Comment Content:   
fixed with this PR 12875f7  
