# Basic Information:
### Title:  Altitude Fluctuation in Constant-Altitude Missions #13793 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: jordancoult
### Issue open time: Dec 27, 2019
# Report
### Report author: jordancoult
### Report Time: Dec 27, 2019
### Report Content:   
Describe the bug    
When flying a basic mission with constant-altitude waypoints, the drone’s altitude erroneously fluctuates. Our use-case requires a much more reliable altitude for precision deployment of sensors. Let me know if you can/can't reproduce this issue.  
Notice how the estimated altitude doesn't follow the setpoint altitude in mission mode (purple region), but it follows exactly in position mode (green region). This shows that the instruments and sensors are capable of producing altitude-accurate flight.  
I also posted this issue here: https://discuss.px4.io/t/altitude-fluctuation-in-missions/14416  
To Reproduce  
1.Use Pixhawk1 or Pixhawk Cube with 1.8.2, 1.9.2, or 1.10 firmware  
2.Upload mission detailed below  
3.Take off and start mission  
4.See drone fluctuate 1-2 meters from setpoint.  
Mission:  
Mission Start - 0m    
Takeoff - 8m rel to home    
Waypoint - 8m rel to home, 5sec hold    
Waypoint - 8m rel to home, 5sec hold    
Waypoint - 8m rel to home    
Waypoint - 8m rel to home    
Waypoint - 8m rel to home    
Waypoint - 8m rel to home  
Expected behavior    
I expect the drone's altitude to follow the setpoint altitude in mission mode with the same accuracy as position mode.  
Log Files Analysis    
https://review.px4.io/plot_app?log=624517a3-9159-415c-8974-4fc790206f6f    
More log files for different missions are available upon request. They have all resulted in the same issue--despite using different setpoint altitudes and types of waypoints.  
Drone    
This problem was reproduced on two drones; a Flamewheel 450 and a custom drone that is much larger--about 1 meter span between opposite motors. We tried multiple configurations for each drone consisting of Pixhawk 1, Pixhawk Cube, v1.8.2 PX4 and v1.9.2 PX4. For each Pixhawk, we used the standard recommended GPS. Both drones were adequately powered.  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: dagar
### Comment Time: Dec 29, 2019
### Comment Content:   
Have you tried tuning the position controller? MPC_Z_P, MPC_Z_VEL_P, MPC_Z_VEL_I, etc.    
I would also encourage you to to sync up with current PX4 (v1.10.0).  

## Comment2
### Comment author: jordancoult
### Comment Time: Dec 30, 2019
### Comment Content:   
@dagar thanks for the suggestions. I tried missions on v1.10.0 and played with the MPC_Z parameters. I didn't see any improvements. If it were an issue with those parameters, I would expect the altitude to also fluctuate in other auto-altitude modes, which doesn't happen.  

## Comment3
### Comment author: stale
### Comment Time: May 6, 2020
### Comment Content:   
This issue has been automatically marked as stale because it has not had recent activity. Thank you for your contributions.  

## Comment4
### Comment author: bresch
### Comment Time: Aug 15, 2022
### Comment Content:   
Probably some setup issues causing bad velocity and/or position estimates    
