# Basic Information:
### Title:  SITL Gazebo with optical flow not working #14300 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: julianoes
### Issue open time: Mar 5, 2020
# Report
### Report author: julianoes
### Report Time: Mar 5, 2020
### Report Content:   
Describe the bug  
I can't switch into position control. Only altitude control works, even if in-air.  
Sometimes the flow thing reports matches, but even then I can't switch into position control:  
    
```bash     
 Number of good matches: 4, desired: 3        
Number of good matches: 3, desired: 3        
Number of good matches: 2, desired: 1        
```  
However, most of the time, this is not reporting anyway.  
The LOCAL_POSITION_NED velocity estimates seem correct but position is just 0.  
To Reproduce    
Steps to reproduce the behavior:  
    
```bash     
 make px4_sitl gazebo_iris_opt_flow        
```  
Then try to switch to position control, or switch to altitude control to takeoff and then try to switch to position control. Both don't work for me.  
Expected behavior    
I assume position control should work, especially when there is also GPS being sent which is right now the case.  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: Jaeyoung-Lim
### Comment Time: May 22, 2020
### Comment Content:   
@julianoes Is this still an issue? I can fly with the iris_opt_flow model  

## Comment2
### Comment author: julianoes
### Comment Time: May 25, 2020
### Comment Content:   
@Jaeyoung-Lim I just tried again doing a takeoff in QGC with iris_opt_flow and it flipped. This is with Gazebo 11.  
https://logs.px4.io/plot_app?log=aa17113c-b016-4118-a14c-b5c63bca6281  
Edit: even taking off in ALTCTL with a joystick just flips.  

## Comment3
### Comment author: julianoes
### Comment Time: May 26, 2020
### Comment Content:   
Turns out this works now, even if I disable GPS publication.  
