# Basic Information:
### Title:  mRo Control Zero H7 support broken by 2cb4ef0629 #20793 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: Ecuashungo
### Issue open time: Dec 19, 2022
### Fixed by: #20812
# Report
### Report author: Ecuashungo
### Report Time: Dec 19, 2022
### Report Content:   
Describe the bug  
Commit 2cb4ef0 breaks support for the control zero h7 board by mrobotics. Its parent commit (45b390b) still works fine.  
You get the following error in QGC:    
and in the nutt-shell the dmesg command only returns NuttShell (NSH) NuttX-11.0.0.  
To Reproduce  
1.Flash 2cb4ef0 onto the control zero h7: make mro_ctrl-zero-h7 upload  
2.Open QGC and try to do the setup. I was not able to select an airframe.  
Expected behavior  
I expect everything to work normally.  
Drone (please complete the following information):  
- MRobotics Control Zero H7 with the aforementioned PX4-Autopilot software versions.  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: dagar
### Comment Time: Dec 19, 2022
### Comment Content:   
Thanks for reporting, I'll take a closer look.  
FYI @davids5 @PetervdPerk-NXP  

## Comment2
### Comment author: PetervdPerk-NXP
### Comment Time: Dec 19, 2022
### Comment Content:   
mro_fix_nx_10_4.patch    
Could you try following patch?  

## Comment3
### Comment author: Ecuashungo
### Comment Time: Dec 19, 2022
### Comment Content:   
@PetervdPerk-NXP Thanks for that patch.    
It worked for both 2cb4ef0 and the current main (9c66f1b).  
By working I mean that I conducted a quick benchtest where I configured everything and spun the motors without receiving errors. I haven't done a proper flight test.  
What was the issue?  

## Comment4
### Comment author: PetervdPerk-NXP
### Comment Time: Dec 19, 2022
### Comment Content:   
2cb4ef0 Upgrades NuttX kernel but also all configuration, most of them were updates using regexes but some targets might be missed by this.  
I did a compare with the FMU-V6X target and took over the configs from there.  

## Comment5
### Comment author: gorghino
### Comment Time: Dec 27, 2022
### Comment Content:   
Glad you fixed it!    
To be honest this was a duplicate of \\\#20743  
