# Basic Information:
### Title:  Bug in FrSky SBUS failsafe #10571 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: mijarck
### Issue open time: Sep 26, 2018
# Report
### Report author: mijarck
### Report Time: Sep 26, 2018
### Report Content:   
As reported already here the "no pulses" failsafe of FrSky receivers like X8R has a random issue where failsafe flag of the SBUS frame is cleared but data values of some channels show 0 instead of correct channel value  
ArduPilot/ardupilot\\\#9400  
Steps to reproduce the behavior:  
- Hopefully by switching off and on the transmitter enough many times and checking the SBUS frames before and after the frames having failsafe flag on  
Expected behavior  
- SBUS frames having incorrect data dropped  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: dagar
### Comment Time: Dec 31, 2018
### Comment Content:   
Hi @mijarck,  
Which flight controller and firmware version?  

## Comment2
### Comment author: mijarck
### Comment Time: Feb 20, 2019
### Comment Content:   
Was seen with Pixhawk 2.1 and Ardupilot initially. Then repeated on table with receiver only. Didn’t dare to fly too far (where failsafe kicks in) with PX4. Either didn’t tried debugging further about the behaviour on PX4.  
Just for the reference here’s the fix made to ArduPilot master: ArduPilot/ardupilot\\\#10216  

## Comment3
### Comment author: stale
### Comment Time: Jun 24, 2019
### Comment Content:   
This issue has been automatically marked as stale because it has not had recent activity. It will be closed if no further activity occurs. Thank you for your contributions.  

## Comment4
### Comment author: stale
### Comment Time: Jul 8, 2019
### Comment Content:   
Closing as stale.  
