# Basic Information:
### Title:  COM_RC_IN_MODE=1 won't disable RC input pre-arm checks #21184 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: riosnav
### Issue open time: Feb 23, 2023
# Report
### Report author: riosnav
### Report Time: Feb 23, 2023
### Report Content:   
Describe the bug  
Using a Pixhawk 4 with an older firmware version (1.12.3) would allow to arm the vehicle without any RC input setting the parameter COM_RC_IN_MODE to 1 (Joystick/No RC Checks).  
I am now setting up a Pixhawk 6C for the same application, running FW version 1.13.2. After setting the parameter COM_RC_IN_MODE to 1 (Joystick Only), QGround control stops complaining about Radio not being configured (the icon turns from red to gray as expected), but when trying to arm the device I get a "Critical: Arming Denied! manual control lost"  
To Reproduce  
Steps to reproduce the behavior:  
1.Set COM_RC_IN_MODE to 1 without any RC input  
2.Try to arm the vehicle  
Expected behavior  
The RC signal lost check should have been fully disabled after setting parameter COM_RC_IN_MODE to 1.  
Log Files and Screenshots  
There is none  
Drone (please complete the following information):  
- Holybro Pixhawk 6C.  
Additional context  
The error seems to be triggered by line 76 at preArmCheck.cpp. I'm honestly not sure wether this is an actual bug or it's just the new expected behaviour for safety reasons, but it was definitely useful to have the ability to arm the device without RC input. We have an application in which we are using the Pixhawk basically as a logger with no actuation capabilities, and we use the arm/disarm commands as a way to start and stop SD logging.  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: sfuhrer
### Comment Time: Feb 28, 2023
### Comment Content:   
@MaEtUgR can you pitch in?  

## Comment2
### Comment author: MaEtUgR
### Comment Time: May 23, 2023
### Comment Content:   
This was fixed for 1.14 with \\\#20695. I wasn't aware of an issue on 1.13 👀  

## Comment3
### Comment author: MaEtUgR
### Comment Time: May 23, 2023
### Comment Content:   
@riosnav I think I finally understand the problem 🤦‍♂️  
In \\\#17404 which was first available in 1.13 the stick input handling was revised and COM_RC_IN_MODE compliant with the description is there to configure what input should be used. See https://docs.px4.io/main/en/advanced_config/parameter_reference.html\\\#COM_RC_IN_MODE Like you guessed it's not allowed to operate and mode that requires stick input without actually having it available. You can of course still operate without any valid stick input in a mode that doesn't require it.  
    
application in which we are using the Pixhawk basically as a logger with no actuation capabilities, and we use the arm/disarm commands as a way to start and stop SD logging    
For this use case there are multiple solutions:  
- You can manually start and stop logging using e.g. the command logger on, logger off on the MAVLink console (logger status can be used to check what's going on) see the documentation: https://docs.px4.io/main/en/dev_log/logging.html\\\#usage  
- You can not have or even disable stick input with COM_RC_IN_MODE set to 4 "Stick input disabled", switch to a mode whose requirements are still satisfied e.g. Takeoff if you have GPS and then arm.  
- NOT SAFE!!, to be avoided - You can force arming using the console command commander arm -f or the MAVLink command MAV_CMD_COMPONENT_ARM_DISARM using the force flag.  
This all works on 1.13 as well as 1.14... I'm closing this issue for now. Feel free to reopen it and ask more questions if it's not solved or not clear.  
