# Basic Information:
### Title:  Rover does not move in SITL Gazebo due to missing mixers #19233 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: Jaeyoung-Lim
### Issue open time: Feb 20, 2022
### Fixed by: #19235
# Report
### Report author: Jaeyoung-Lim
### Report Time: Feb 20, 2022
### Report Content:   
Describe the bug    
When running Rover SITL, the model is not able to move. This is the reason recently CI testing for rovers have been reliably failing.  
    
```bash     
 Gazebo multi-robot simulator, version 9.19.0        
Copyright (C) 2012 Open Source Robotics Foundation.        
Released under the Apache 2 License.        
http://gazebosim.org        
[Msg] Waiting for master.        
[Msg] Connected to gazebo master @ http://127.0.0.1:11345        
[Msg] Publicized address: 129.132.39.158        
file not found        
ERROR [mixer_module] mixer reset unavailable, not using static mixers        
ERROR [mixer] can't load mixer file: skip        
ERROR [mixer] failed to load mixer        
ERROR  [init] Failed loading mixer: skip        
INFO  [init] setting PWM_AUX_OUT none        
```  
It seems like rover was configured to use control allocation in \\\#18776, but now the vehicle is unable to move in SITl Gazebo  
@sfuhrer @bkueng Any ideas how to fix this?  
To Reproduce    
Steps to reproduce the behavior:  
1.Run make px4_sitl gazebo_rover  
2.See error  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: oceanusxiv
### Comment Time: Feb 21, 2022
### Comment Content:   
@Jaeyoung-Lim lol just my luck I was messing around with this today and hit this immediately.  
It looks like what's happening is that during the control allocation changes, there was a misunderstanding on how the SITL rover is configured. See  
```cpp   
 /*PX4-Autopilot/ROMFS/px4fmu_common/init.d-posix/airframes/1060_roverLine 37  
      incc6c6c3*/param set-default PWM_MAIN_FUNC6 101  
```  
which treats the two rear wheel throttles as a 0...1 as opposed to -1...1 which was how the original mixer file configured it. Since rover motors can reverse the original config was correct. Fortunately I think all that's needed is to change the two entries in that file from 101 to 201 like the steering servo configs, that should help.  
I am still seeing weird position control behavior even after this though, namely the steering keeps oscillating, but I'm not sure if it's related.  
Disregard this above comment, I clearly don't understand the control allocator scheme well enough. I'll have to look at this more.  
