# Basic Information:
### Title:  X2.1 Mag not showing up #17244 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: nbort
### Issue open time: Mar 26, 2021
### Fixed by: #17246
# Report
### Report author: nbort
### Report Time: Mar 26, 2021
### Report Content:   
Describe the bug    
The X2.1 (not -777) onboard mag is not showing up in PX4 v1.11.3  
To Reproduce    
Steps to reproduce the behavior:  
1.Connected a new X2.1, preinstalled with Ardupilot, to QGC. Verified that the mag was seen  
2.Used QGC to change the firmware to PX4. Automatically loaded px4_fmu-v3 (surprised it did not load v2)  
3."uorb top" did not show the mag or either IMU  
4.Performed the x2.1 SD bootloader upgrade  
5.Used QGC to change the firmware. Automatically loaded auav-x21_default.px4  
6."uorb top" shows both accels, both gyros but not the mag  
7.Completed the QGC compass cal but no compass was calibrated (all mag IDs and mag_comp still zero)  
8.Used QGC to change the firmware. Manually loaded mro_x21_default.px4 (1.11.3)  
9."uorb top" shows both accels, both gyros but not the mag  
10.Completed the QGC compass cal but no compass was calibrated (all mag IDs and mag_comp still zero)  
11.Repeated the entire process on a second x2.1 autopilot  
Expected behavior    
I expect to see the onboard mag in the mavlink console and expect to see it show up as calibrated after performing a QGC compass calibration  
Drone (please complete the following information):    
x2.1 Autopilot. Standard Plane vehicle type. The above testing was performed with the autopilot connected to a Windows computer via USB with no other autopilot connections.  
Additional context    
This follows testing with a third x2.1 in which I had the same problem but was able to see and calibrate external mags. On an x2.1-777 I can see the mag (but it fails to do other things, like PPM in)  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: dagar
### Comment Time: Mar 26, 2021
### Comment Content:   
Do you happen to know if the only internal mag is supposed to be from the mpu9250?  
```cpp   
 /*PX4-Autopilot/boards/mro/x21/src/spi.cppLines 39 to 43  
      ina260ddd*/initSPIBus (SPI::Bus::SPI1, { initSPIDevice (DRV_IMU_DEVTYPE_ICM20602, SPI::CS{GPIO::PortC, GPIO::Pin15}, SPI::DRDY{GPIO::PortC, GPIO::Pin14}), initSPIDevice (DRV_IMU_DEVTYPE_ICM20608G, SPI::CS{GPIO::PortC, GPIO::Pin15}, SPI::DRDY{GPIO::PortC, GPIO::Pin14}), initSPIDevice (DRV_BARO_DEVTYPE_MS5611, SPI::CS{GPIO::PortD, GPIO::Pin7}), initSPIDevice (DRV_IMU_DEVTYPE_MPU9250, SPI::CS{GPIO::PortC, GPIO::Pin2}, SPI::DRDY{GPIO::PortD, GPIO::Pin15}),  
```  
In the updated mpu9250 we no longer run the magnetometer by default because it interferes (mildly) with the high rate raw data output. If that really is the only onboard magnetometer I can enable it.  

## Comment2
### Comment author: nbort
### Comment Time: Mar 26, 2021
### Comment Content:   
Yes, I am referring to the mpu9250. It is the only mag on the board. My airplane will have an external mag but I do like having the internal mag, mainly for the preflight consistency checks. It is interesting that with the mro x2.1-777, I do see the mpu9250 mag with 1.11.3.  

## Comment3
### Comment author: dagar
### Comment Time: Mar 26, 2021
### Comment Content:   
Can you give \\\#17246 a try?  
If you take a look at work_queue status and uorb top sensor you should see the impact of the mag on mpu9250 scheduling.  

## Comment4
### Comment author: nbort
### Comment Time: Mar 27, 2021
### Comment Content:   
Thanks! I verified that it worked, both forked from the master and from 1.11.3. I just did basic functional checks - the mag shows up, the field reading make sense and it can be calibrated. I also verified that the accels and gyros still show up.  

## Comment5
### Comment author: dagar
### Comment Time: Mar 27, 2021
### Comment Content:   
Great, thanks for the quick test @nbort. This change will be included in v1.12.  
