# Basic Information:
### Title:  DShot Motor Reverse Direction uses wrong DShot command #19756 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: BA-ED
### Issue open time: Jun 1, 2022
### Fixed by: #19758
# Report
### Report author: BA-ED
### Report Time: Jun 1, 2022
### Report Content:   
Describe the bug  
Commands DShot_cmd_spin_direction_1 and DShot_cmd_spin_direction_2 are meant to be used for setting the motor direction to be saved to eeprom.    
Commands DShot_cmd_spin_direction_normal and DShot_cmd_spin_direction_reversed are meant to be used for setting the motor direction temporarily (e.g. for motor testing and turtle mode).    
Here is the code for each command. As you can see, it uses DShot_cmd_spin_direction_reversed instead of DShot_cmd_spin_direction_2    
This means that even if you run dshot save, the direction setting is not stored.  
See AM32 implementation for reference:    
https://github.com/AlkaMotors/AM32-MultiRotor-ESC-firmware/blob/master/Src/dshot.c\\\#L168    
Case 7 and 8 are for storing the saveable motor direction and case 20 and 21 are for setting the temporary motor direction.    
See this forum post for another data point of evidence to show PX4 is using the wrong commands for setting motor direction:    
https://www.rcgroups.com/forums/showpost.php?p=39039010&postcount=2282  
This is not an AM32 problem, AM32 appears to be implementing the commands correctly. The DShot_cmd_spin_direction_reversed command is used by betaflight for things like turtle mode and motor direction testing. Here is another point of evidence stating that the '_reversed' command is only for temporary direction change and the other command is for saving the motor direction.  
To Reproduce  
On a drone running AM32 ESC firmware:  
1.Use commands  dshot reverse -m 1 and then dshot save -m 1 as per PX4 motor direction reversal instructions  
2.Try testing motor direction - the motor will be reversed properly  
3.Reboot the drone (including its ESC)  
4.Try testing motor direction again - the motor will have reverted to its original direction rather than being reversed as expected  
Expected behavior  
The motor should remain with the set direction (reversed or non reversed), persistent across reboots.  
Log Files and Screenshots  
N/A  
Drone (please complete the following information):  
Any drone with AM32 ESC (possibly also blheli but I have not personally tested)  
Additional context  
N/A  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: dagar
### Comment Time: Jun 2, 2022
### Comment Content:   
@bkueng  

## Comment2
### Comment author: bkueng
### Comment Time: Jun 2, 2022
### Comment Content:   
Good find. Lacking a formal spec I just picked one, and it worked as expected when I tested it.    
Can you send a PR to change it?  
Note that when using the QGC UI it already uses the other commands: https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot/blob/master/src/drivers/dshot/DShot.cpp\\\#L640=  
