# Basic Information:
### Title:  mavlink - reading to undefined memory  #12900 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: BazookaJoe1900
### Issue open time: Sep 4, 2019
# Report
### Report author: BazookaJoe1900
### Report Time: Sep 4, 2019
### Report Content:   
First, I am not sure if this bug should be here or in mavlink.... I write it here, but it can moved.    
I am not 100% sure about if my assumption is right.  
Describe the bug    
I played with @julianoes pr (posix: add fuzz testing using MAVLink messages \\\#12896) and think that i might come to critical bug in mavlink_helper.h line 502  
https://github.com/mavlink/c_library_v2/blob/d5d131cf710ceaa93d26884ea12de8de95804985/mavlink_helpers.h\\\#L501  
when the fuzz sends msgid that is higher then the maximum message id on the mavlink_message_crcs[mid].msgid table. the mid parameter can go to the sizeof(mavlink_message_crcs) and there is a read from undefined address    
I think that the next statement is an error:  
    
high=sizeof(mavlink_message_crcs)/sizeof(mavlink_message_crcs[0])    
it should be  
    
high=sizeof(mavlink_message_crcs)/sizeof(mavlink_message_crcs[0])-1    
this is table to show how low, high and mid iteration looks when msgid is higher then highest id on the table: assuming the number of messages is 186  
      
        
          
low          
high          
mid          
        
          
0          
186          
93          
          
93          
186          
140          
          
140          
186          
163          
          
163          
186          
175          
          
175          
186          
181          
          
181          
186          
184          
          
184          
186          
185          
          
185          
186          
186 -> Error, calling to mavlink_message_crcs[186].msgid          
To Reproduce    
run posix: add fuzz testing using MAVLink messages \\\#12896  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: julianoes
### Comment Time: Sep 4, 2019
### Comment Content:   
Thanks @BazookaJoe1900, I forgot to add that you need to patch this. I usually did this locally.  
See: https://github.com/ArduPilot/pymavlink/pull/343/files.  

## Comment2
### Comment author: BazookaJoe1900
### Comment Time: Sep 17, 2019
### Comment Content:   
@julianoes    
The fix has finelly merged on Mavlink. Closing this issue  

## Comment3
### Comment author: julianoes
### Comment Time: Sep 18, 2019
### Comment Content:   
Thanks @BazookaJoe1900, however we still need to update the c_library_v2 submodule.  

## Comment4
### Comment author: BazookaJoe1900
### Comment Time: Sep 19, 2019
### Comment Content:   
@julianoes I assume that will be automatically.    
do you want me to re-open?  

## Comment5
### Comment author: julianoes
### Comment Time: Sep 20, 2019
### Comment Content:   
There is a bot that creates a branch usually. Ah here it is: \\\#12998.  

## Comment6
### Comment author: zhangteng0526
### Comment Time: May 7, 2024
### Comment Content:   
Is there any crash poc?  
