# Basic Information:
### Title:  Sporadic PARAM_VALUE message being sent through an Iridium interface #21496 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: lvanasse
### Issue open time: Apr 19, 2023
### Fixed by: #21510
# Report
### Report author: lvanasse
### Report Time: Apr 19, 2023
### Report Content:   
Describe the bug  
A clear and concise description of the bug.  
When using an Iridium interface with a MAVLink instance and using it in the Iridium mode, I'm sometime seeing a PARAM_VALUE mavlink message being writing onto the Iridium interface (https://mavlink.io/en/messages/common.html\\\#PARAM_VALUE). This is an issue because I don't want the PARAM value to be sent on that interface, or at least I want to be able to control it.  
To Reproduce  
Steps to reproduce the behavior:  
1.Connect a IridiumSBD module to your Pixhawk  
2.Enable the IridiumSBD driver in your firmware  
3.I like to comment out the commands in the module.yaml of the IridiumSBD  
4.Power everything up  
5.Start the IridiumSBD driver with this command: `iridiumsbd start -v -d /dev/ttyS5  
6.Start the Mavlink instance with mavlink start -d /dev/iridium -m iridium -b 115200 (I'm using a custom mavlink mode, but it's about the same as the iridium one)  
7.And sometimes there's PARAM_VALUE messages being written on the Iridium interface. Which is the issue here.  
Also sometime, the writing on the Iridium interface doesn't really work if there's no communication with the satellite constellation. I think this is the expected behaviour. Since multiple stream could be written onto it, and it would need to know the size of the message that would be overwritten. But if you look at the screenshot, you can see the buffer being reset and then starting from the beginning, which kind of invalid the previous behaviour.  
Expected behavior  
A clear and concise description of what you expected to happen.    
I'm not sure if there's an expectation, but it's more of being able to block the PARAM VALUE being written onto the Iridium driver. And I would like for stream to overwrite themselves if the buffer is full, like in circular buffer.  
Log Files and Screenshots  
Always provide a link to the flight log file:  
- Download the flight log file from the vehicle (tutorial).  
- Upload the log to the PX4 Flight Review  
- Share the link to the log (Copy and paste the URL of the log)  
Here's the log file. What's the most interesting is the Message log that has a printf of the data written onto the Iridium driver.    
https://logs.px4.io/plot_app?log=3cd87690-3dd5-44c4-9d1c-de8da82a8b7b  
Drone (please complete the following information):  
- Simply using the Pix32 V6 with a M8N GPS and the IridiumSBD 9603 module  
Additional context  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: lvanasse
### Comment Time: Apr 25, 2023
### Comment Content:   
Ok so I've got more info on the issue I've been experimenting and if possible I've like to have some feedback if it is a good solution.  
So the issue is coming from the MavlinkParametersManager (mavlink_parameters.cpp) which has a function send_param(param_t param, int component_id) which whill send a PARAM_VALUE mavlink message on the MAVLink instance, which in my case is on an Iridium interface, which I would like to avoid.  
Anyway, then send_param is called inside the send_untransmitted() function, which from my understanding, will send to the MAVLink instance all the params that changed value. This is then called inside the send_params() function. And the send_params() function is called inside the send() function, it will only reach send_params() if there's enough space in the TX buffer of the instance.  
Then there's only one MavlinkParametersManager object which only call send() once, which is inside the mavlinkreceiver.cpp file. It is inside the MavlinkReceiver::run() function, where the _parameters_manager.send() (_parameters_manager is the object of MavlinkParametersManager` class) code is call if the heartbeat minus the last_send_update timestamp is greater than the timeout * 1000.  
I'll create a PR and reference this issue into it.  

## Comment2
### Comment author: DronecodeBot
### Comment Time: Apr 25, 2023
### Comment Content:   
This issue has been mentioned on Discussion Forum for PX4, Pixhawk, QGroundControl, MAVSDK, MAVLink. There might be relevant details there:  
https://discuss.px4.io/t/px4-community-q-a-april-26-2023/31839/3  
