# Basic Information:
### Title:  Unable to use UART3 on Kakute h7 #20708 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: TedObrien
### Issue open time: Dec 6, 2022
# Report
### Report author: TedObrien
### Report Time: Dec 6, 2022
### Report Content:   
Describe the bug  
Using the PX4 v13.2 on the holybro kakute h7 I am unable to use ports dev/tty/S1 or /dev/tty/S2 as TELEM2.    
`  
To Reproduce  
Steps to reproduce the behavior:  
- Flash v1.13.2  
- Plug component such as telemetry unit into TELEM1 and configure baud rate  
- works perfectly  
- now assign to telemetry 2 and set baud rate  
- when CONFIG_BOARD_SERIAL_TEL2="/dev/ttyS1"  in default.pxboard,  telemetry does not work at all, https://docs.px4.io/main/en/flight_controller/kakuteh7.html states that "/dev/ttyS1" is not broken out so i guess this is unsurprising  
- If you change CONFIG_BOARD_SERIAL_TEL2="/dev/ttyS2"  then you can connect to QGC via telemetry but cannot send data to the drone, only receive. Perhapse there is a port conflict as /dev/ttyS2 is asigned as the "Dubug console" however i am unsure of how to confirm this  
Expected behavior  
I would expect TELEM2 to behave like TELEM1, if /dev/ttyS2 is asigned as the debug console, is there a way to disable it so i can use this port as an additional uart?  
Log Files and Screenshots  
Please let me know if there is any additional information that would be helpful.    
Many thanks  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: j-chen-opteran
### Comment Time: Jan 9, 2023
### Comment Content:   
TX3/RX3 on the Kakute H7 is indeed the debug console according to the docs here. I've confirmed this - by sticking a FTDI tool and using a tool like screen you can access the NuttX console via terminal. Telem2 shouldn't appear as a selectable port though.  

## Comment2
### Comment author: TedObrien
### Comment Time: Jan 9, 2023
### Comment Content:   
Hi @j-chen-opteran thanks for getting back to me. I was actually aiming to use the TX3/RX3 pins for an external sensor, so was asking if it is possible to disable the NuttX debug console from using this port, as I do not currently need it, and it appears to be interfering. TELEM2 was not enabled by default but was added by me manually so i could try and use it for said sensor.    
Many thanks  

## Comment3
### Comment author: j-chen-opteran
### Comment Time: Jan 9, 2023
### Comment Content:   
AFAIK no way to do this unfortunately - I had the same issue on that board as I ran out of UARTs. The bluetooth chip consuming another UART doesn't help :(  

## Comment4
### Comment author: TedObrien
### Comment Time: Jan 11, 2023
### Comment Content:   
That’s a shame, thanks for the help!  

## Comment5
### Comment author: julianoes
### Comment Time: Jan 16, 2023
### Comment Content:   
So this can be closed?  
