# Basic Information:
### Title:  mavros_offboard_attctl_test failing #21441 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: mfl22
### Issue open time: Apr 6, 2023
# Report
### Report author: mfl22
### Report Time: Apr 6, 2023
### Report Content:   
Describe the bug  
A clear and concise description of the bug.  
mavros_offboard_attctl_test  is failing.  
To Reproduce  
Steps to reproduce the behavior:  
1.Drone switched on '...'  
2.Uploaded mission '....' (attach QGC mission file)  
3.Took off '....'  
4.See error  
./rostest_px4_run.sh mavros_posix_tests_offboard_attctl.test from test dir.  
Expected behavior  
A clear and concise description of what you expected to happen.  
Test should pass.  
Log Files and Screenshots  
Always provide a link to the flight log file:  
- Download the flight log file from the vehicle (tutorial).  
- Upload the log to the PX4 Flight Review  
- Share the link to the log (Copy and paste the URL of the log)  
Add screenshots to help explain your problem.  
Drone (please complete the following information):  
- Describe the type of drone.  
- Photo of the IMU / autopilot setup if possible.  
Default (iris).  
Additional context  
Add any other context about the problem here.  
Ubuntu 20.04, ros noetic, PX4 build from source.  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: mfl22
### Comment Time: Apr 7, 2023
### Comment Content:   
After increasing roll angle (-0.25 to -0.75) and thrust (0.7 to 1.0) and slightly decreasing the boundaries the test now passes.  
