# Basic Information:
### Title:  MC Landing Gear Don't Deploy at Correct Altitude at End of Mission #13313 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: mwiatt
### Issue open time: Oct 30, 2019
# Report
### Report author: mwiatt
### Report Time: Oct 30, 2019
### Report Content:   
Describe the bug    
Landing gear are enabled via a mixer to AUX1. Landing gear properly retract upon takeoff. When landing, the gear do not start to deploy until the copter is around 1m above the ground.  
To Reproduce    
Steps to reproduce the behavior:  
1.Power on and wait for GPS lock  
2.Uploaded mission. Mission End is set to "Return to Launch" gear-test.txt  
3.Took off in mission mode  
4.Verified during testing at two locations, 4 flights each.  
Expected behavior    
During the landing phase, landing gear should be commanded to deploy when RTL_DECEND_ALT, LAND_ALT_1, or LAND_ALT_2 is reached though I am not sure which it is (but would like to know).  
Log Files and Screenshots    
Flight Log showing a very quick flight with one waypoint:    
https://logs.px4.io/plot_app?log=c57c04e0-a6bd-4f04-9fe2-eb986cbcc1b4  
Drone (please complete the following information):  
- Tarot X6 (with Tarot retracts)  
- Pixhawk Cube 2.1  
- Here2 GNSS  
- PX4 1.9.2  
- QGC 3.5.5  
Additional context    
A file named lgear.aux.mix is placed in /fs/microsd/etc/mixers. This Tarot landing gear controller requires an PWM output of less than 1520 for the gear to retract and greater that 1520 for the gear to extend which is the reason for the (-) scaling. It has the following content:  
    
```bash     
 M: 1        
S: 0 7 -10000 -10000 0 -10000 10000        
```  
A file named config.txt is placed in /fs/microsd/etc with the following content:  
    
```bash     
 set MIXER_AUX lgear        
set PWM_AUX_OUT 1234        
set PWM_AUX_DISARMED 1500        
set PWM_AUX_MIN 1000        
set PWM_AUX_MAX 2000        
set PWM_AUX_RATE 50        
```  
The gear are working properly in mission mode on takeoff as well as manual mode using an RC channel assigned by RC_MAP_GEAR_SW.  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: mwiatt
### Comment Time: Nov 3, 2019
### Comment Content:   
The log posted above with generated with a mission that had Mission End set to "Return to Launch". I ran a test flight yesterday without the "Return to Launch" and added a discrete "Land" waypoint at the end of the mission. As before, the landing gear did not deploy at the end of the mission until the copter was a few feet off the ground.  

## Comment2
### Comment author: mwiatt
### Comment Time: Nov 3, 2019
### Comment Content:   
I am pretty sure I found the bug but I am a newbie with PX4 and having some difficulty navigating through the code.  
When a waypoint of type "land" is processed, there is a call to _prepareLandSetpoints() to update the setpoint:  
https://github.com/PX4/Firmware/blob/045f6233d4e77de87a2ef9ffe4e81b26bf9c50eb/src/lib/FlightTasks/tasks/AutoMapper2/FlightTaskAutoMapper2.cpp\\\#L70  
The gear state is updated in _prepareLandSetpoints() here:  
https://github.com/PX4/Firmware/blob/045f6233d4e77de87a2ef9ffe4e81b26bf9c50eb/src/lib/FlightTasks/tasks/AutoMapper2/FlightTaskAutoMapper2.cpp\\\#L140  
Shortly after _prepareLandSetpoints() is called, the "GEAR_DOWN" state is overwritten if _highEnoughForLandingGear() is true:  
https://github.com/PX4/Firmware/blob/045f6233d4e77de87a2ef9ffe4e81b26bf9c50eb/src/lib/FlightTasks/tasks/AutoMapper2/FlightTaskAutoMapper2.cpp\\\#L106  
The GEAR_DOWN state will only "stick" once _highEnoughForLandingGear() is false which is hardcoded to 2m  
https://github.com/PX4/Firmware/blob/045f6233d4e77de87a2ef9ffe4e81b26bf9c50eb/src/lib/FlightTasks/tasks/AutoMapper2/FlightTaskAutoMapper2.cpp\\\#L196  

## Comment3
### Comment author: MaEtUgR
### Comment Time: Nov 7, 2019
### Comment Content:   
I'm reviewing your changes and followed back where the above 2 meters altitude check comes from in case you're interested.    
The first occurance of an altitude dependent automatic landing gear triggering comes from    
d7683e9\\\#diff-fc77c3ef569029d45764664c75d4b0c1R1529    
and it was changed to the 2 meters you're seeing today in    
bc406a1\\\#diff-fc77c3ef569029d45764664c75d4b0c1R1569  

## Comment4
### Comment author: stale
### Comment Time: Feb 5, 2020
### Comment Content:   
This issue has been automatically marked as stale because it has not had recent activity. Thank you for your contributions.  

## Comment5
### Comment author: FlavioTonelli
### Comment Time: Sep 16, 2020
### Comment Content:   
The linked pull request is merged. This issue shall be fine to close, @mwiatt isn't it?  
