# Basic Information:
### Title:  Pixhawk Cube_calibration issue on Master #12692 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: Tony3dr
### Issue open time: Aug 13, 2019
# Report
### Report author: Tony3dr
### Report Time: Aug 13, 2019
### Report Content:   
Describe the bug    
When setting up the vehicle for a flight, on arming the vehicle I get a "Compass not found" message, see image below:    
This issue is on Master e25db01 & PR Pull12650, tried on Stable version and was able to fly. v1.9.2 (1069058).    
To Reproduce    
Steps to reproduce the behavior:  
1.Power on the Drone  
2.Uploaded mission  
3.Arm vehicle and Takeoff  
4.Error, "Preflight Fail: COmpass trying to build PX4 Firmware on OSX 10.7 \\\\\#2 uncalibrated"  
5.Calibrate vehicle  
6.Error message Gyro 1 no matching uORB devid  
7.Unable to calibrate the vehicle on Master    
Log Files    
Compass not found and Calibration issue log on Master:    
https://review.px4.io/plot_app?log=13cc9db5-4a03-41ff-a9e2-b80013d3e104  
Stable  v1.9.2 (1069058) log:    
https://logs.px4.io/plot_app?log=71a782cc-7979-4ff1-a6e8-f3d8f4757f55  
PR 12650 log issue:    
https://review.px4.io/plot_app?log=18094d44-f808-4b67-b7d6-8ef0df7f4f05  
**Drone **    
Frame- DJI F450    
Flight Controller: Pixhawk 2(The Cube)  
@dagar we tried calibrating the vehicle and get an Error message Gyro 1 no matching uORB devid. On Stable version, we were able to arm, calibrate and fly the vehicle with no issues.  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: dagar
### Comment Time: Aug 14, 2019
### Comment Content:   
I believe this is a bug with the icm20948 driver, which up until recently was using an incorrect device id. I'll try to reproduce.  

## Comment2
### Comment author: proficnc
### Comment Time: Oct 26, 2019
### Comment Content:   
So was this introduced bug fixed?  

## Comment3
### Comment author: darshanz
### Comment Time: Nov 13, 2019
### Comment Content:   
Is it fixed yet??  
Tried building the source for px4_fmu-v3_default and faced faced the same problem with latest v1.10.0-rc1.    
Installing v1.10.0 Beta 4 using QGC also had the same problem.  
Then, tried building v1.10.0-rc1 for another hardware with px4_fmu-v5_default, didn't face that problem though.  

## Comment4
### Comment author: FlavioTonelli
### Comment Time: Dec 6, 2019
### Comment Content:   
I'm facing a similar issue with Here2 compass on a pixhawk 4 board.    
That seems to confirm the bug is related to ICM20948 driver.  

## Comment5
### Comment author: JacobCrabill
### Comment Time: Dec 12, 2019
### Comment Content:   
Is this pull request relevant?    
\\\#11189  

## Comment6
### Comment author: feemi
### Comment Time: Dec 16, 2019
### Comment Content:   
This issue still exists on pixhawk cube 2.1 fmu-v3 autopilot.  

## Comment7
### Comment author: FlavioTonelli
### Comment Time: Jan 10, 2020
### Comment Content:   
I can't reproduce anymore this issue on current stable version.    
Tested on both Pixhawk v3 and v5 autopilot, equipped with an Here 2 antenna.    
Is that been fixed?  

## Comment8
### Comment author: JacobCrabill
### Comment Time: Mar 24, 2020
### Comment Content:   
It's possible that this has been fixed by \\\#14345, if the issue was in regards to external UAVCAN compasses.  

## Comment9
### Comment author: mrpollo
### Comment Time: Apr 6, 2020
### Comment Content:   
@Tony3dr Can you please verify @JacobCrabill comment? it would be great to resolve/close this issue asap.  

## Comment10
### Comment author: stale
### Comment Time: Jul 5, 2020
### Comment Content:   
This issue has been automatically marked as stale because it has not had recent activity. Thank you for your contributions.  

## Comment11
### Comment author: LorenzMeier
### Comment Time: Jun 2, 2021
### Comment Content:   
Solved a long time ago.  
