# Basic Information:
### Title:  CI Failures due to Clang Tidy in unrelated files to active PR #10678 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: mcsauder
### Issue open time: Oct 11, 2018
# Report
### Report author: mcsauder
### Report Time: Oct 11, 2018
### Report Content:   
Describe the bug    
Hi, I'm having trouble with active PRs due to Clang Tidy failures in files not touched by my active PR.  The root cause of the failures is not entirely obvious, and this occurrence has appeared to affect multiple PR's in the past few weeks. (And... Yes, I will also do some digging into fixing this bug that I am filing. ;) )  
To Reproduce    
Submit a PR.  Wait for CI tools to complete.  
Expected behavior    
One would guess that only files impacted by the PR would be those able to cause issues.  This appears to not be the case, however it is likely due to CI tool improvements while the code body remains deficient.  
Log Files and Screenshots    
Additional context    
Reference PR \\\#10629  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: fredowski
### Comment Time: Oct 12, 2018
### Comment Content:   
The same for PR \\\#10414 .  

## Comment2
### Comment author: dagar
### Comment Time: Oct 15, 2018
### Comment Content:   
@fredowski that particular one was a real failure that slipped into master.  
@lamping7 this might be a case where it's acceptable to retry once after a failure.  

## Comment3
### Comment author: lamping7
### Comment Time: Oct 29, 2018
### Comment Content:   
I've watched this loosely and haven't noticed a failure here. I'm going to close for now. Feel free to re-open if it comes back up or if there is a better solution.  

## Comment4
### Comment author: lamping7
### Comment Time: Oct 29, 2018
### Comment Content:   
I take that back. I just found one. http://ci.px4.io:8080/blue/organizations/jenkins/PX4%2FFirmware/detail/PR-10774/1/pipeline  
\\\#10774  
@dagar ideas?  

## Comment5
### Comment author: mcsauder
### Comment Time: Jan 12, 2019
### Comment Content:   
I think the original CI failures leading to this issue have been resolved.  A few ongoing snags remain, but I think this is good to close.  Thanks everyone!  
