# Basic Information:
### Title:  The Dshot module cannot be started when using dynamic control allocation. #19901 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: lxcnet4221
### Issue open time: Jul 12, 2022
# Report
### Report author: lxcnet4221
### Report Time: Jul 12, 2022
### Report Content:   
Describe the bug  
The 1.13.0 new feature dynamic control allocation works perfectly in PWM output mode, but it seems that Dshot output mode cannot be enabled at the same time as enabling it.  
To Reproduce  
1.    
Set SYS_CTRL_ALLOC to 1 and DSHOT_CONFIG not to be 0.      
2.    
Check status of modules in console.      
It can be seem that the dshot module does not replace the pwm_out module, and the pwm_out module is still running.    
Try to solve  
I look into the startup script, and find the param SYS_CTRL_ALLOC start up both pwm_out and dshot modules, which may be conflicting?    
```cpp   
 /*PX4-Autopilot/ROMFS/px4fmu_common/init.d/rc.interfaceLines 108 to 111  
      in10a2b4c*/if param compare SYS_CTRL_ALLOC 1 then pwm_out start dshot start  
```  
I deleted pwm_out start, which does disable the pwm_out module but the dshot module still can't start up.  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: bkueng
### Comment Time: Jul 12, 2022
### Comment Content:   
Can you use the QGC UI to configure? In particular, select dshot for the outputs you want: https://docs.px4.io/main/assets/img/qgc_actuators_mc_aux.1a859041.png.    
This will then set the right parameters. The DSHOT_CONFIG is for the old implementation and will be removed.  

## Comment2
### Comment author: lxcnet4221
### Comment Time: Jul 12, 2022
### Comment Content:   
    
Can you use the QGC UI to configure? In particular, select dshot for the outputs you want: https://docs.px4.io/main/assets/img/qgc_actuators_mc_aux.1a859041.png. This will then set the right parameters. The DSHOT_CONFIG is for the old implementation and will be removed.    
Fixed, and thanks for the quick reply！    
Good to know that it is possible to use both PWM and DSHOT protocols at the same time.  
