# Basic Information:
### Title:  Land detector edge case in descend mode #13231 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: julianoes
### Issue open time: Oct 18, 2019
# Report
### Report author: julianoes
### Report Time: Oct 18, 2019
### Report Content:   
Describe the bug    
The land detector seems to detect ground contact in Descend mode (RC land failsafe without GPS).  
1.vertical_movement to be false: https://github.com/PX4/Firmware/blob/95dc522b99688a08402ac6462ad28f5dfd338eda/src/modules/land_detector/MulticopterLandDetector.cpp\\\#L154  
2.hit_ground to be true: https://github.com/PX4/Firmware/blob/95dc522b99688a08402ac6462ad28f5dfd338eda/src/modules/land_detector/MulticopterLandDetector.cpp\\\#L165  
This happens because the z controller only reacts slowly to the new setpoint so the z velocity down is much less than the z velocity setpoint here:    
https://github.com/PX4/Firmware/blob/95dc522b99688a08402ac6462ad28f5dfd338eda/src/modules/land_detector/MulticopterLandDetector.cpp\\\#L151-L154  
One observation of the descend case is that the velocity setpoint jumps to the land speed instead of gradually reaching it like in Land (with GPS) mode.  
To Reproduce    
This is hard to reproduce in SITL because the drone seems to follow the setpoint quicker.  
Expected behavior    
It should not detect ground contact until actually landed.  
Log Files and Screenshots  
This happened in a failsafe descend test:    
https://review.px4.io/plot_app?log=3104d449-dd29-473f-9055-354984ff8afa  
This does not happen in normal landing:    
https://review.px4.io/plot_app?log=2ea6423f-b232-45c9-8c40-32e775118359  
More info in \\\#13143 (comment).  
FYI @bresch @MaEtUgR  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: MaEtUgR
### Comment Time: Oct 22, 2019
### Comment Content:   
Related: \\\#13124, \\\#11683  

## Comment2
### Comment author: stale
### Comment Time: Sep 11, 2020
### Comment Content:   
This issue has been automatically marked as stale because it has not had recent activity. Thank you for your contributions.  

## Comment3
### Comment author: LorenzMeier
### Comment Time: Jan 2, 2021
### Comment Content:   
@MaEtUgR Can you think of a simple solution?  

## Comment4
### Comment author: LorenzMeier
### Comment Time: Jun 2, 2021
### Comment Content:   
This has been reworked since, closing.  
