# Basic Information:
### Title:  Trying out Dynamic control allocatino requires first setting the airframe, then setting SYS_CTRL_ALLOC #19890 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: junwoo091400
### Issue open time: Jul 8, 2022
# Report
### Report author: junwoo091400
### Report Time: Jul 8, 2022
### Report Content:   
Describe the bug  
After flashing the new firmware, which  makes the control allocation disabled, I must set the *airframe first before enabling control allocation. Otherwise if I first enable control allocation then set the airframe, control allocation gets disabled again.  
To Reproduce  
1.Flash new firmware (make px4_fmu-v5x upload)  
2.Set SYS_CTRL_ALLOC to Enabled in Parameters Tab (without setting the airframe)  
3.Reboot the vehicle (in Parameters tab)  
4.Verify that 'Actuators' Tab is present (Control Allocation is enabled)    
5.Select an airframe and reboot  
6.The Actuators tab is gone (and Control allocation is disabled)    
Expected behavior  
Selecting an airframe shouldn't disable the control allocation  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: sfuhrer
### Comment Time: Jul 15, 2022
### Comment Content:   
I don't fully understand why you first set SYS_CTRL_ALLOC and then select the airframe. Note that CA_CTRL_ALLOC is only temporary, and at least for MC we should be able to set it to default very soon.  

## Comment2
### Comment author: junwoo091400
### Comment Time: Jul 21, 2022
### Comment Content:   
Well I would imagine the case being a user wants to test another vehicle with control allocation enabled, so the SYS_CTRL_ALLOC will be Enabled, and the user would switch the airframe.  
What confused me was why this parameter would even be touched (e.g. I would expect it to be untouched, like a sensor calibration data for example), is this set to Disabled intentionally in the quadcopter airframe file?  

## Comment3
### Comment author: hamishwillee
### Comment Time: Jul 21, 2022
### Comment Content:   
FWIW I would expect selecting an airframe to reset the vehicle to its defaults. I didn't know sensor calibration was magically retained.  

## Comment4
### Comment author: junwoo091400
### Comment Time: Oct 21, 2022
### Comment Content:   
Parameter gone, not relevant anymore  
