# Basic Information:
### Title:  Offboard position setpoints with loiter type mask makes Fixed wing vehicle fly away #13180 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: Jaeyoung-Lim
### Issue open time: Oct 14, 2019
### Fixed by: #13199
# Report
### Report author: Jaeyoung-Lim
### Report Time: Oct 14, 2019
### Report Content:   
Describe the bug    
Offboard position setpoints with loiter type masks result in a fly away of a fixed wing vehicle. The roll and pitch setpoints are set to zero and continues to fly to the last direction where offboard mode was triggered. The offboard position setpoints fly as expected without the loiter type mask.  
To Reproduce    
Steps to reproduce the behavior:  
1.Take off FW vehicle in SITL  
2.Send SET_POSITION_LOCAL_NED setpoint with type_mask=0x3000 (see  
3.Swich mode to offboard mode  
Expected behavior    
The FW vehicle circles around the loiter setpoint  
Log Files and Screenshots    
The log shows the offboard setpoint resulting in a fly away. A local position setpoint of [0.0, 0.0, 20.0] was being streemed withtype_mask=0x3000  
Additional context    
Currently flying offboard position setpoints are passed as a reference position for the L1 controller, which results the vehicle turning around and traversing the setpoint as can be seen here. Supporting circling the waypoints may be useful for various robotic applications using fixed wing.  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: Jaeyoung-Lim
### Comment Time: Oct 15, 2019
### Comment Content:   
Initial thoughts on looking into this issue. It seems like loiter_radius and loiter_direction are not properly set in the mavlink_receiver when a setpoint is sent with the loiter type mask.  
This is due to the fact that the mavlink message  SET_POSITION_TARGET_LOCAL_NED does not contain any information about the loiter_direction or loiter_radius. loiter_radius is set to 0 when sending normal position setpoints.  
