# Basic Information:
### Title:  crazyflie 2.0 qgc comm not working #11226 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: jgoppert
### Issue open time: Jan 16, 2019
# Report
### Report author: jgoppert
### Report Time: Jan 16, 2019
### Report Content:   
Describe the bug    
Following the directions here: https://docs.px4.io/en/flight_controller/crazyflie2.html doesn't give me communication with qgroundcontrol on master, or release versions. I tried to reflash the crazyflie bootloader, but the dfu-util doesn't find the device even after putting it into bootloader mode by holding the power button down.  
To Reproduce    
Steps to reproduce the behavior:  
1.Get a crazyflie 2.0 STEM Kit  
2.Flash the bootloader, upload px4 etc. as described here: https://docs.px4.io/en/flight_controller/crazyflie2.html  
3.Install latest qgc on linux and start.  
I've also attempted to connect with screen and gtkterm and I don't see a mavlink heartbeat or anything coming over the serial terminal when set at 115200, 57600, 921600 etc.  
This sounds like \\\#8924, but I've checked the defconfig for nuttx and it seems to have the change from that issue. It doesn't seem like a hardware issue since i can flash the firmware over the usb, but I can't check the comms with the crazyflie firmware unless I figure out how to get their bootloader to flash.  
    
```bash     
 $ lsusb      
...      
Bus 001 Device 069: ID 26ac:0016       
...      
$ ls -al /dev/ttyA*      
...      
crw-rw---- 1 root dialout 166, 1 Jan 16 12:27 /dev/ttyACM1      
$ groups      
jgoppert adm dialout cdrom sudo dip plugdev lpadmin sambashare    
```  
@DanielePettenuzzo any thoughts about what I could be doing wrong?  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: jgoppert
### Comment Time: Jan 17, 2019
### Comment Content:   
I'm wondering if this is because I don't have a an sd-card expansion attached?  

## Comment2
### Comment author: jgoppert
### Comment Time: Jan 17, 2019
### Comment Content:   
I got another crazyflie and the sdcard and debugging adapter, so hopefully I will figure out what is going on here once I get the parts in a week.  

## Comment3
### Comment author: DanielePettenuzzo
### Comment Time: Jan 19, 2019
### Comment Content:   
@jgoppert I will try on Monday because I currently don't have a Crazyflie with me. Not having the sdcard expansion shouldn't be an issue.  

## Comment4
### Comment author: jgoppert
### Comment Time: Jan 19, 2019
### Comment Content:   
@DanielePettenuzzo thanks. I dont think it could be a software version. I've tried to upload various commits you had working with no success. I'm thinking it is either  
- board defect  
- some new change to the hardware/bootloader etc. that crept it.  
- I did something wrong while following the instructions.  
I flew it with my phone on android with the crazyflie fw but never saw communication working with the crazyflie python client app.  
Do you need the debugger breakout to upload a new bootloader after you upload the px4 bootloader. That is the weirdest part, I thought I could just roll back to crazyflie firmware to debug if anything went wrong, but I can't get the dfu-util device to show up, even after putting it in the rapid flashing blue light mode that I used to upload the px4 bootloader in the first place.  
Here are some pictures of my hardware:    

## Comment5
### Comment author: jgoppert
### Comment Time: Jan 22, 2019
### Comment Content:   
@DanielePettenuzzo I found my issue.  
1.I originally had the ranging board installed upside down so the bootloader wouldn't come up properly.  
2.If you have a ranging board on the device, mavlink doesn't start properly.  
