# Basic Information:
### Title:  SITL jMAVsim oscillates in pitch #17006 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: MaEtUgR
### Issue open time: Mar 2, 2021
### Fixed by: #17593
# Report
### Report author: MaEtUgR
### Report Time: Mar 2, 2021
### Report Content:   
Describe the bug    
When using master I observed small but steady and fast oscillations already in hover flight in simulation from a certain point in time on. I never had the time to follow where exactly this comes from and the sim was still usable for the normal tests I do although the oscillations are annoying and could affect observations in tests. When using master today the same oscillations became a lot worse and rendered it unusable so I started investigating.  
To Reproduce    
Steps to reproduce the behavior:  
1.Start make px4_sitl jmavsim  
2.Wait until the simulated GPS is accepted  
3.Command a takeoff  
4.See pitch oscillations when looking at either the level hovering vehicle's attitude in the visualization or the attitude indicator of the ground station.  
Expected behavior    
Nice smooth normal flight without oscillations.  
Investigation  
- Before IMU_DGYRO_CUTOFF add conservative default (0 Hz -> 30 Hz) \\\\\#16188 it's flying exactly as expected. Smooth motion, no oscillations.  
- After the D-term gyro filter cutoff was reduced it has the small annoying oscillation.  
- After sensors/vehicle_angular_velocity use full sensor_gyro_fifo if available \\\\\#15820 specifically 6482120 SITL jMAVsim is unusable.  
Now since I didn't do any real-world test flights the question is:  
- Are there general regressions that are not exclusive to my tests?  
- Are the defaults generally less suited now?  
- Are the defaults just less suited for SITL jMAVsim now and retuning it (which I'll happily do) is the only thing needed.  
FYI @dagar @bresch @bkueng  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: dagar
### Comment Time: Mar 2, 2021
### Comment Content:   
I'll follow up tomorrow, but in general the current defaults are intended to be relatively safe by default (look at vehicle_angular_acceleration in a typical user setup).  

## Comment2
### Comment author: MaEtUgR
### Comment Time: Mar 3, 2021
### Comment Content:   
- It's purely because of IMU_DGYRO_CUTOFF being too low. If I change that back during SITL flight it's instantly fixed. General regressions ruled out.  
- Interestingly it's pitch only where it is that sensitive. We're using the same default D-term gain of 0.003. Using the new default of IMU_DGYRO_CUTOFF 10Hz I have to increase the roll D-term gain to 0.008 to get a similarly bad roll flight behavior like pitch with the default gain. Assuming that the jMAVsim drone is symmetric (to be confirmed) that's quite suspicious.  
    
but in general the current defaults are intended to be relatively safe    
Thanks for adding context. I do not draw any conclusions about real-world flight without actual testing. It could be that it's the right thing to do. Just know that "safe" is relative. Lowering the cutoff can also render the derivative part of the controller unstable with the default gain depending on the vehicle. I will not suggest to change it without actual flight data.  

## Comment3
### Comment author: mehmetyldz87
### Comment Time: Mar 9, 2021
### Comment Content:   
Hi @MaEtUgR    
I've done a few test flights on this issue. With v1.11.3, the value of  IMU_DGYRO_CUTOFF  has been updated to 0.  
TEST Flight 1  
IMU_DGYRO_CUTOFF  = 0    
https://logs.px4.io/plot_app?log=a13b6a53-1006-4d2a-bdbb-ff03040768ee  
TEST Flight 2  
IMU_DGYRO_CUTOFF  = 10  [Default]    
https://logs.px4.io/plot_app?log=f69ff845-f6fa-4704-a35f-57b922441f70  
TEST Flight 3  
IMU_DGYRO_CUTOFF  = 15    
https://logs.px4.io/plot_app?log=5c5ce078-834f-41fd-b03a-a4c9f6ae8c0f  
The higher this value of IMU_DGYRO_CUTOFF , the better the flight performance. Should I increase to 30 ?  

## Comment4
### Comment author: MaEtUgR
### Comment Time: Apr 6, 2021
### Comment Content:   
\\\#17287 was a not so nice hotfix.    
\\\#17290 amkes sense in general but does not solve this issue.    
I really wonder why the issue is pitch only. I also tested with increased IMU_GYRO_CUTOFF (50-60Hz). The two filters might have some strange interaction on the pitch noise model in jMAVSim. I'll check further.  
