# Basic Information:
### Title:  Airspeed failure in high wind cases #21654 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: Jaeyoung-Lim
### Issue open time: May 30, 2023
# Report
### Report author: Jaeyoung-Lim
### Report Time: May 30, 2023
### Report Content:   
Describe the bug  
I wanted to test a scenario for fixedwings, where there was excess wind (18m/s)  
However, the vehicle fails a preflight check during flight and the airspeed is invalidated. This eventually ends up in the vehicle crashing.  
observations  
- It seems like the message is wrong if a preflight check is failing during flight.  
- The simulated airspeed sensor is working  
@sfuhrer @tstastny FYI  
To Reproduce  
Steps to reproduce the behavior:  
1.Set the windVelocityMean to 18 in windy.world (https://github.com/PX4/PX4-SITL_gazebo-classic/blob/0d53638452e6da4371c12599e1a649608361811e/worlds/windy.world\\\#L18)  
2.Run SITL with plane model  
    
```bash     
 make px4_sitl gazebo-classic_plane__windy        
```  
3.In the px4 shell, type in the following command  
    
```bash     
 commander takeoff        
```  
5.See error    
6.Vehicle crashes into the ground  
Expected behavior  
NPFG is built to handle high wind cases and as long as the airspeed sensor is "working" it should not invalidate the airspeed sensor  
Log Files and Screenshots  
Tested in SITL Gazebo classic  
- Flight log: log  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: ryanjAA
### Comment Time: Jul 5, 2023
### Comment Content:   
This is interesting. Highest sustained wind I have flown in is about 16 m/s. It’s always a pita to takeoff since you need to cover the pitot, arm and turn quite a few checks off. One of the reasons airspeed checks are routinely disabled is to cope with high winds.  

## Comment2
### Comment author: sfuhrer
### Comment Time: Jul 5, 2023
### Comment Content:   
    
It’s always a pita to takeoff since you need to cover the pitot, arm and turn quite a few checks off    
You mean because of the preflight airspeed checks? The range of acceptable airspeeds was extended to FW_AIRSPD_MAX in 1.14.    
If you have airspeed failure false positives in high wind then let me know about them, they shouldn't happen.  

## Comment3
### Comment author: sfuhrer
### Comment Time: Jul 5, 2023
### Comment Content:   
@Jaeyoung-Lim have you also tried taking of in headwind? That would be a more realistic scenario in that much wind.    
Here it seems like the wind estimator doesn't initialize properly and then doesn't recover, likely because the airspeed gate size prevents further airspeed fusion.    
This is heavily related to \\\#21764.  

## Comment4
### Comment author: sfuhrer
### Comment Time: Nov 7, 2023
### Comment Content:   
Will be improved with \\\#21764  
