# Basic Information:
### Title:  Strange behaviors(unable to take off, rollover and flying it around etc.) may occur by sending MAV_CMD_NAV_TAKEOFF command to take off #21601 
### Issue status: Closed

### Author: Lqs66

### Issue open time: May 17, 2023
# Report
### Report author: Lqs66
### Report Time: May 17, 2023
### Report Content:   
Describe the bug  
1.the drone just entered take-off mode (the drone's wings have just started to rotate and there is not yet enough thrust to make it take off);  
2.at this time, send MAV_CMD_NAV_TAKEOFF command by using the following code, and the drone will appear strange behavior (e.g. ultra-low flying, rollover, and flying it around).  
A little doubt, about why I send MAV_CMD_NAV_TAKEOFF command directly with the following code, it will appear as "Disarmed by auto preflight disarming". Instead, the drone can take off when I change the coordinates (48,8) to the coordinates of home.  
    
```bash     
 \\\\#!/usr/bin/env python3        
import os, sys        
import time        
from pymavlink import mavutil        
os.environ["MAVLINK20"] = "1"        
if __name__ == "__main__":        
            
    uav = mavutil.mavlink_connection("udpin:127.0.0.1:14550")        
    uav.wait_heartbeat()        
    print(f"send MAV_CMD_NAV_TAKEOFF")        
    uav.mav.command_long_send(        
        uav.target_system,        
        uav.target_component,        
        mavutil.mavlink.MAV_CMD_NAV_TAKEOFF,        
        0,        
        0,        
        0,        
        0,        
        0,        
        48, \\\\# 47.397751        
        8,   \\\\#8.545607        
        100        
    )        
```
To Reproduce  
Steps to reproduce the behavior:  
1.make px4_sitl gazebo  
2.arm the drone and start takeoff mode  
3.When the drone is on the ground, execute the code to send MAV_CMD_NAV_TAKEOFF command  
Expected behavior  
The behavior of takeoff with the MAV_CMD_NAV_TAKEOFF command and takeoff with QGC should be the same, or as specified for takeoff mode(see https://docs.px4.io/v1.13/en/flight_modes/takeoff.html). And no strange behaviors.  
Log Files and Screenshots  
Always provide a link to the flight log file:  
1.    
Sometimes, the drone will fly super low and may roll over.      
log: https://logs.px4.io/plot_app?log=791a9860-1eca-48f2-8a3e-575de70051e9    
2.    
Sometimes it flies around too, and I think the different strange behaviors may depend on the time difference between when the drone enters takeoff mode and when it receives the MAV_CMD_NAV_TAKEOFF command.      
log: https://logs.px4.io/plot_app?log=e6ed2e26-d240-4b1b-aa6f-6c860ac4fe1f    
3.    
When I repeat steps 1-3 in v1.13.3, the drone will also have strange flight behavior.      
log: https://logs.px4.io/plot_app?log=50e0e9fa-96ba-478b-8524-533b2f22d365    
Drone (please complete the following information):  
- Multi-copter  
- make px4_sitl gazebo  
- v1.13.2 and v1.13.3  
@dagar  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: Lqs66
### Comment Time: May 21, 2023
### Comment Content:   
When I set the coordinates away from the home point (set to (48, 8)), the drone doesn't take off. If the drone is on the ground for more than 10s (set by the parameter COM_DISARM_PRFLT), the commander module will disarm it. But, If the coordinates are set closer to the home point (set to (47.397851, 8.545607)), the drone will be able to take off within 10s (move to setpoint).  
On the other hand, after the drone gets setpoint, the drone will raise while moving towards the target coordinates. This is very dangerous (tilting the drone may make the rotors contact with the ground when it is very close to the ground). I suggest that the drone should rise to the specified height before moving to the target coordinates.    
@dagar @bresch  
