# Basic Information:
### Title:  SITL Gazebo Iris Max Speed bug #20126 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: Edekheh
### Issue open time: Aug 29, 2022
# Report
### Report author: Edekheh
### Report Time: Aug 29, 2022
### Report Content:   
Describe the bug  
SITL max speed limitation for quadcopter to 20m/s. MPC_XY_VEL_MAX and MPC_XY_CRUISE doesn't change max speed.  
To Reproduce  
Steps to reproduce the behavior:  
1.Run roslaunch px4 mavros_posix_stl.launch  
2.Open QGroundControl, change MPC_XY_VEL_MAX to 50m/s and MPC_XY_CRUISE to 40m/s  
3.After sending drone to distant location you will se max speed at 20m/s instead of 40.  
Expected behavior  
According to changing in parameters, flight controller should not limit SITL drone to 20m/s.  
Add screenshots to help explain your problem.  
Drone (please complete the following information):  
- SITL IRIS run by  
- Photo of the IMU / autopilot setup if possible.  
Additional context  
Add any other context about the problem here.  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: andreykanevskoi
### Comment Time: Mar 21, 2024
### Comment Content:   
Check docs, this is the maximum allowed speed. It won't work faster, the speed will be reduced.    

## Comment2
### Comment author: Edekheh
### Comment Time: Mar 21, 2024
### Comment Content:   
Oh wow it was so long ago i forgot about it.    
To modify speed above 20 m/s You can go to Tools/simulation/sitl-gazebo/src/gazebo_motor_model.cpp and edit line 222 :    
double scalar = 1 - vel / 25.0; // at 25 m/s the rotor will not produce any force anymore  
Now You can fly up to 35-40 m/s.  
If You want to fly even faster You need to modify simulated vehicle sdf model, so that rotors will produce more thrust :)  

## Comment3
### Comment author: andreykanevskoi
### Comment Time: Mar 21, 2024
### Comment Content:   
I use AirSim and MavLink, couldn't found smth similar there ;(  
