# Basic Information:
### Title:  BAT_V_DIV and BAT_A_PER_V params missing unless battery_status module is included in build #14670 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: modaltb
### Issue open time: Apr 14, 2020
# Report
### Report author: modaltb
### Report Time: Apr 14, 2020
### Report Content:   
Describe the bug    
Our hardware doesn't use the battery_status module, rather a power module connected over I2C, so we aren't including battery_status in our cmake build file.  I believe that without including battery_status in the build, you fail to pick up the parameters in analog_battery_params_deprecated.c.  
I see this PR from sometime ago, which is in the same area: c201906 .  It's using param_find to 'force them into the list' but I don't think this is working.  
To Reproduce    
Perhaps somewhat unique, but:  
1.build a target without the battery_status module  
2.Connect to QGC and open the Power settings  
3.Observe the "Missing Params:.. BAT_V_DIV .... BAT_A_PER_V". warning  
If you have v5x hardware (or ModalAI FCv1), you might be able to replicate pretty easy loading a master branch build and connected to QGC...  I don't think the v5x has battery_status either  
Expected behavior    
No warning in QQC from these legacy params being missing.  I can add them to our target or in the voxlpm driver but seems hacky.  
Log Files and Screenshots  
Drone (please complete the following information):  
- modalai_fc-v1  
Additional context    
Simple work around is for me to add these params to the voxlpm driver, but seems too hacky...  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: julianoes
### Comment Time: Apr 20, 2020
### Comment Content:   
    
Simple work around is for me to add these params to the voxlpm driver, but seems too hacky...    
I would argue that's what is needed for backwards compatibility.  
Also, see how the deprecated params are synced with the new ones here:    
https://github.com/PX4/Firmware/blob/6e18cb85b1911ac052838c73a6fbb9b8d6f72d2c/src/modules/battery_status/analog_battery.cpp\\\#L92-L97  
So if you can make use of the battery lib and copy the migrateParam part, and include both param definition files, you should be good.  

## Comment2
### Comment author: modaltb
### Comment Time: Apr 20, 2020
### Comment Content:   
OK great, thanks for the tips, I can move forward with this easy enough!  
