# Basic Information:
### Title:  LPE Q Estimator external heading fusion not handling lack of external data #11433 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: ArkadiuszNiemiec
### Issue open time: Feb 11, 2019
# Report
### Report author: ArkadiuszNiemiec
### Report Time: Feb 11, 2019
### Report Content:   
I am using an LPE with an external vision system and yaw information fused in Q Estimator. It works pretty well even without a mag sensor (this currently does not work in EKF2). The problem is that my external estimator can have up to a few seconds pauses in which no new yaw data is published.    
I have found out that if the last yaw position is e.g. x radian the Q Estimator is still converging to this number even if gyro has correctly reported 90-degree turn.  
Steps to reproduce the behavior:  
1.PX4 with LPE estimator, external vision estimator and external vision yaw fused in Q Estimator.  
2.Turn off mag sensor.  
3.Let the ATTITUDE.yaw converge to VISION_POSITION_ESTIMATE.yaw.  
4.Turn off external vision system.  
5.Rotate the autopilot 90 degrees.  
6.Watch ATTITUDE.yaw converge back to the last data reported by the external vision system.  
Expected behavior:    
The Q estimator should turn off external vision data if last message is too old.  
This screenshot should explain it:    
I have a fix ready and will create a PR after tests.  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: TSC21
### Comment Time: Feb 11, 2019
### Comment Content:   
@ArkadiuszNiemiec a PR with a fix is welcomed, yes. Thanks  

## Comment2
### Comment author: ArkadiuszNiemiec
### Comment Time: Feb 11, 2019
### Comment Content:   
@TSC21 I have tested the \\\#11437 in flight and it works perfectly. Here's the screenshot of the data generated in the same way as the previous one:    
