# Basic Information:
### Title:  px4_sitl_rtps doesn't work with px4_ros_com micrortps_bridge #19917 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: jaredsjohansen
### Issue open time: Jul 14, 2022
### Fixed by: #19979
# Report
### Report author: jaredsjohansen
### Report Time: Jul 14, 2022
### Report Content:   
Describe the bug  
In the master branch of this repo (from about a month ago), I could follow the steps described here to get data from the px4_sitl_rtps gazebo simulator to cross the micrortps bridge and show up in ROS2.  I could also run the offboard_mode example with ROS2.    
Around July 8, the master branch of this repo was merged into main.  When that occurred, data from the px4_sitl_rtps gazebo simulator would be sent over the micrortps bridge, but the micrortps_agent would die with this error:  
    
```bash     
 terminate called after throwing an instance of 'eprosima::fastcdr::exception::BadParamException'        
  what():  Unexpected byte value in Cdr::deserialize(bool), expected 0 or 1        
Aborted (core dumped)        
```  
I believe the bug is associated with this issue/fix, which was made on the master branch, but doesn't appear to be fully integrated into the main branch.  The first file seems fine.  The second file doesn't.  I tried editing the second file associated with this MR (which appears to be renamed slightly to msg/templates/uorb_microcdr/msg.cpp.em), but was unable to get it to work.  
When I revert the repo to an earlier version (i.e., right before the master -> main merge by using git checkout 10a2b4c9f7d34234459b4d3604b99a33491a9d83), everything works properly (i.e., data is sent over the micrortps bridge, the micrortps_agent receives it, and you can ros2 topic echo any of the messages).  
I have checked whether the px4_msgs or px4_ros_com repos have changed in the previous month.  They have not.  The source of the miscommunication across the micrortps bridge appears to be associated with recent changes to the PX4-Autopilot repo.  
To Reproduce  
Steps to reproduce the behavior:  
1.In terminal 1, get the latest version of this repo and start the simulator:    
      
```bash       
 git clone https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot --recursive          
cd ~/PX4-Autopilot          
make          
make px4_sitl_rtps          
make px4_sitl_rtps gazebo          
```    
2.In terminal 2, follow the steps described here to install Fast-DDS, ROS2, and the px4_ros_com_ros2 workspace.  When running the sanity check the installation section, you will run these commands:    
      
```bash       
 source ~/px4_ros_com_ros2/install/setup.bash          
micrortps_agent -t UDP          
```    
which will produce this error:    
      
```bash       
 terminate called after throwing an instance of 'eprosima::fastcdr::exception::BadParamException'          
  what():  Unexpected byte value in Cdr::deserialize(bool), expected 0 or 1          
Aborted (core dumped)          
```    
3.In terminal 1, revert the PX4-Autopilot to an earlier version and restart the simulator:    
      
```bash       
 cd ~/PX4-Autopilot          
git checkout 10a2b4c9f7d34234459b4d3604b99a33491a9d83          
make          
make px4_sitl_rtps          
make px4_sitl_rtps gazebo          
```    
4.In terminal 2, restart the micrortps_agent (micrortps_agent -t UDP).  It should not die.  
5.In terminal 3, you can now ros2 topic echo any of the fields and it will print out data:    
      
```bash       
 ros2 topic echo /fmu/sensor_combined/out          
---          
timestamp: 1657838030351792          
gyro_rad:          
- -0.0005326324608176947          
- -0.0007989492150954902          
- -0.0007989475270733237          
gyro_integral_dt: 4000          
accelerometer_timestamp_relative: 0          
accelerometer_m_s2:          
- 0.06823474913835526          
- 0.07062912732362747          
- -9.889251708984375          
accelerometer_integral_dt: 4000          
accelerometer_clipping: 0          
gyro_clipping: 0          
accel_calibration_count: 0          
gyro_calibration_count: 1          
```    
Expected behavior  
There should be no error when performing step 2 above.  
Log Files and Screenshots  
N/A  
Drone:  
px4_sitl_rtps (iris rtps)  
Additional context  
None  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: defrag-bambino
### Comment Time: Jul 15, 2022
### Comment Content:   
same issue here. For me, even the latest stable release (v1.13) has this issue.  

## Comment2
### Comment author: francescofraternali
### Comment Time: Jul 18, 2022
### Comment Content:   
Same issue here  

## Comment3
### Comment author: kennysituepisci
### Comment Time: Jul 18, 2022
### Comment Content:   
I'm facing the same issue also  

## Comment4
### Comment author: mamariomiamo
### Comment Time: Jul 20, 2022
### Comment Content:   
same issue. as suggested by issue author check out to commit number 10a2b4c will work.  

## Comment5
### Comment author: beniaminopozzan
### Comment Time: Jul 22, 2022
### Comment Content:   
Noticing that the last commit on px4_msgs is dated to the 21 of June 2022 while the history of the msg/ folder of PX4-Autopilot shows that the last modification has been made just 2 days ago (the 20 of July 2022).    
For this reason I tried to force the update of the message definitions on the px4_msgs side using the this script. Indeed some message definitions changed.  
However at this point I am not able to build px4_msgs, here is the error message:  
    
```bash     
 > CMake Error at /home/beniamino/ros2_foxy/install/rosidl_adapter/share/rosidl_adapter/cmake/rosidl_adapt_interfaces.cmake:60 (message):        
>   execute_process(/usr/bin/python3 -m rosidl_adapter --package-name px4_msgs        
>   --arguments-file        
>   /home/beniamino/px4_ros_com_ros2/build/px4_msgs/rosidl_adapter__arguments__px4_msgs.json        
>   --output-dir        
>   /home/beniamino/px4_ros_com_ros2/build/px4_msgs/rosidl_adapter/px4_msgs        
>   --output-file        
>   /home/beniamino/px4_ros_com_ros2/build/px4_msgs/rosidl_adapter/px4_msgs.idls)        
>   returned error code 1:        
>         
>   Traceback (most recent call last):        
>         
>     File "/usr/lib/python3.8/runpy.py", line 194, in _run_module_as_main        
>       return _run_code(code, main_globals, None,        
>     File "/usr/lib/python3.8/runpy.py", line 87, in _run_code        
>       exec(code, run_globals)        
>     File "/home/beniamino/ros2_foxy/install/rosidl_adapter/lib/python3.8/site-packages/rosidl_adapter/__main__.py", line 19, in <module>        
>       sys.exit(main())        
>     File "/home/beniamino/ros2_foxy/install/rosidl_adapter/lib/python3.8/site-packages/rosidl_adapter/main.py", line 53, in main        
>       abs_idl_file = convert_to_idl(        
>     File "/home/beniamino/ros2_foxy/install/rosidl_adapter/lib/python3.8/site-packages/rosidl_adapter/__init__.py", line 19, in convert_to_idl        
>       return convert_msg_to_idl(        
>     File "/home/beniamino/ros2_foxy/install/rosidl_adapter/lib/python3.8/site-packages/rosidl_adapter/msg/__init__.py", line 28, in convert_msg_to_idl        
>       msg = parse_message_string(package_name, input_file.stem, content)        
>     File "/home/beniamino/ros2_foxy/install/rosidl_adapter/lib/python3.8/site-packages/rosidl_adapter/parser.py", line 531, in parse_message_string        
>       constants.append(Constant(type_string, name, value))        
>     File "/home/beniamino/ros2_foxy/install/rosidl_adapter/lib/python3.8/site-packages/rosidl_adapter/parser.py", line 319, in __init__        
>       raise NameError(        
>         
>   NameError: 'kNotAborted' is an invalid constant name.  It should have the        
>   pattern `'^[A-Z]([A-Z0-9_]?[A-Z0-9]+)*$'`        
```  
It seems to me that this PR \\\#19871 modified the position_controller_landing_status uorb message and now its constant names are not consistent with the ROS naming conventions (they are camel case while the should be snake case).  
If restore just that message definition in px4_msgs than everything works (provided that that message is not exchanged between between micrortps_agent and micrortps_client).  

## Comment6
### Comment author: dirksavage88
### Comment Time: Jul 23, 2022
### Comment Content:   
Can confirm same error on the micrortps_agent side, client side is sitl:  
"terminate called after throwing an instance of 'eprosima::fastcdr::exception::BadParamException'    
what():  Unexpected byte value in Cdr::deserialize(bool), expected 0 or 1    
Aborted (core dumped)"  
This is a road block for those trying to sanity check their microRTPS bridge in sitl before moving on to real hardware...  

## Comment7
### Comment author: hhjj0506
### Comment Time: Jul 28, 2022
### Comment Content:   
Having the same issue while following the ROS 2 User Guide on PX4.  

## Comment8
### Comment author: mrpollo
### Comment Time: Jul 28, 2022
### Comment Content:   
Thanks to @beniaminopozzan, this is likely closed by \\\#19979 can someone please confirm the changes work on the main branch? cc @dirksavage88  

## Comment9
### Comment author: mamariomiamo
### Comment Time: Jul 30, 2022
### Comment Content:   
I tried with 41d9c3 but it still threw the same error  

## Comment10
### Comment author: dirksavage88
### Comment Time: Jul 30, 2022
### Comment Content:   
I have moved on to use the micro-ROS-Agent instead, and then start the microdds_client on the PX4 side (command line options can be found in the px4 modules list). This (microdds client) works on main btw.  
@mrpollo @hamishwillee I find the microdds may be more user friendly to set up than the micrortps installation and setup in the px4 docs.  

## Comment11
### Comment author: tank104
### Comment Time: Jul 31, 2022
### Comment Content:   
Same issue for me - rolling back to old commit as suggested works though.  

## Comment12
### Comment author: beniaminopozzan
### Comment Time: Aug 1, 2022
### Comment Content:   
@mamariomiamo , @dirksavage88 , @tank104 , did you update the message definitions of the px4_msgs package before compiling it? You can use uorb_to_ros_msgs.py to do that, the first argument is the PX4-Autopilot/msg/ path while the second must be the px4_msgs/msg/ one.  

## Comment13
### Comment author: jaredsjohansen
### Comment Time: Aug 1, 2022
### Comment Content:   
I have done a git pull to get the latest code (git hash 30e2490d5b50c0365052e00d53777b1f4068deab).  This version has @beniaminopozzan's fix. (I confirmed that the file msg/position_controller_landing_status.msg has the correct naming conventions.)  
In Terminal 1, I ran the following commands:  
    
```bash     
 cd ~/PX4-Autopilot        
make clean        
rm -rf build        
make        
make px4_sitl_rtps         
make px4_sitl_rtps gazebo        
```  
In Terminal 2, I ran the following commands:  
    
```bash     
 source ~/px4_ros_com_ros2/install/setup.bash        
micrortps_agent -t UDP        
```  
I still get this error (which is the same one I was getting before):  
    
```bash     
 terminate called after throwing an instance of 'eprosima::fastcdr::exception::BadParamException'        
  what():  Unexpected byte value in Cdr::deserialize(bool), expected 0 or 1        
Aborted (core dumped)        
```  
In Terminal 2, I ran the following commands:  
    
```bash     
 cd ~/PX4-Autopilot        
python3 msg/tools/uorb_to_ros_msgs.py msg/ px4_msgs/msg/        
mv ~/px4_ros_com_ros2/src/px4_msgs/msg ~/px4_ros_com_ros2/src/px4_msgs/msg-bk        
mv px4_msgs/msg ~/px4_ros_com_ros2/src/px4_msgs/        
cd ~/px4_ros_com_ros2        
rm -rf build/ install/ log/        
\\\\# the above command was necessary for me; without it, I would still get the same eprosima error        
colcon build        
source install/setup.bash        
micrortps_agent -t UDP        
```  
The terminal does not die!  
In terminal 3, I could now ros2 topic echo any of the fields and it will print out data:  
    
```bash     
 ros2 topic echo /fmu/vehicle_odometry/out        
---        
timestamp: 1659375001869655        
timestamp_sample: 1659375001869655        
local_frame: 0        
x: -0.0035502880346029997        
y: 0.007076810579746962        
z: 0.004730345215648413        
...        
```  
As far as I understand, the problem has been identified (and then fixed) by @beniaminopozzan.  
@dirksavage88, as a tangent, can you share more details about your workaround (perhaps in the thread I am linking below)? There is a separate issue which involves a bottleneck with the fact that PX4-Autopilot automatically starts a single micrortps_client daemon.  This single instance is responsible for serving data to however many micrortps_agents are running (e.g., if I run ./gazebo_sitl_multiple_run.sh -n 5 -t px4_sitl_rtps ... and then start up 5 micrortps_agents, the single micrortps_client is responsible for serving data to all five micrortps_agents).  When the -n argument gets large, the micrortps_client is unable to service them all in a timely fashion and things do not work.  I think that having multiple micrortps_clients would solve the problem.  Your post seems to indicate that you start the micrortps_client manually (instead of it being started automatically), which leads me to believe that I may be able to start multiple instances of it.  If you could comment on the linked post, I'd appreciate it!  

## Comment14
### Comment author: maxpolzin
### Comment Time: Aug 30, 2022
### Comment Content:   
    
I have moved on to use the micro-ROS-Agent instead, and then start the microdds_client on the PX4 side (command line options can be found in the px4 modules list). This (microdds client) works on main btw.    
I spent two days compiling and fighting libraries and did not manage to receive messages. I ran into this error and couldn't resolve it on Ubuntu 22.04 or Ubuntu 20.04. The agent didn't crash anymore in the end but I wouldn't receive any messages. Finally, I switched to MicroDDS Client and microros agent and it worked immediatly. No need to compile anything on the companion computer.  

## Comment15
### Comment author: WarriorHanamy
### Comment Time: Aug 30, 2022
### Comment Content:   
when there is no simulation existing, just run micrortps_agent -t UDP , the terminal displays it connected (this is a bug).  
