# Basic Information:
### Title:  Unstable GPS data while using the 2nd telemetry on TELEM2 port - v1.11.0-beta1 #14659 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: saengphet
### Issue open time: Apr 14, 2020
### Fixed by: PX4/NuttX#113
# Report
### Report author: saengphet
### Report Time: Apr 14, 2020
### Report Content:   
Describe the bug    
Hi, I found very strange GPS behavior after uploaded "v1.11.0-beta1" to pixhawk 4. Firstly, I configured MAV_1_CONFIG = TELEM2 (My UAV has been flown using this config. before since firmware v1.8.2, v1.9.2 and v1.10.2 and I got no error). Then, I investigated using"mavlink inspector" in QGC and take a look at GPS_RAW_INT.  
GPS signal seems unstable, the fluctuation ranges from 0 to 5 Hz. It should be a constant value or nearly constant (compared with an older firmware, I have already tested before).  
Finally, the result is the flight mode could not be changed from ALTITUDE to POSITION, No Green GPS LED light visible. I managed the test as follows  
To Reproduce / Test Case    
Case 1: v1.11.0-beta1 --> OK    
MAV_1_CONFIG = Disabled    
https://review.px4.io/plot_app?log=9764baca-ec06-40aa-b1ba-79719d0b75fc  
Case 2: v1.11.0-beta1 --> Error / ubx msg warning    
MAV_1_CONFIG = TELEM2    
https://review.px4.io/plot_app?log=a670c429-592e-4e52-a200-b811bd45f14d  
Case 3: v1.11.0-beta1 --> OK    
MAV_1_CONFIG = TELEM/SERIAL4    
https://review.px4.io/plot_app?log=98b8c1ec-d492-48b5-823a-870af29e5686  
Case 4:  v1.11.0-beta1 --> Error / ubx msg warning    
MAV_2_CONFIG =  TELEM2  
Case 5: v1.11.0-beta1 --> OK    
MAV_2_CONFIG =  TELEM/SERIAL4  
Case 6: v1.11.0-beta1 --> Error / ubx msg warning    
MAV_1_CONFIG = TELEM/SERIAL4    
MAV_2_CONFIG =  TELEM2  
Case 7: v1.10.1 --> OK (compare to Case 2 v1.11.0-beta1. It is not the same result even config. is the same)    
MAV_1_CONFIG = TELEM2    
https://review.px4.io/plot_app?log=29bea816-da9d-4cd4-b042-c0fdb14e489d  
The error is the same whether telemetry is available on that port or not, indoor or outdoor if I configure MAV_X_CONFIG to TELEM2. According to the flight log of Case 2, you will see the strange GPS behavior at "GPS Uncertainty and GPS Noise & Jamming". In every test case, Telemetry works fine.  
However, GPS works fine if I upload the older firmware "v1.10.1" (v1.8.2 / v1.9.2 is the same) Is it firmware bug ? or Did I miss anything?  
Drone (please complete the following information):  
- Describe the type of drone: Tiltrotor using E-flite Convergence airframe  
- Hardware: Pixhawk4 + GPS pixhawk 4 + Holybro telemetry  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: bkueng
### Comment Time: Apr 21, 2020
### Comment Content:   
Thanks for the detailed report. I can reproduce this, also on master.  
- Pixhawk 4 with GPS attached  
- param set MAV_1_CONFIG 102  
- param set SER_TEL2_BAUD 57600  
The problem goes away when disabling TX DMA (CONFIG_USART3_TXDMA) on Telem2. @davids5 can you have a look?  

## Comment2
### Comment author: mrpollo
### Comment Time: Apr 22, 2020
### Comment Content:   
Thanks for reporting @saengphet  

## Comment3
### Comment author: bkueng
### Comment Time: Apr 27, 2020
### Comment Content:   
Another report: https://logs.px4.io/plot_app?log=1c41e67f-696b-4b76-a669-cf4cd42330b0  
    
```bash     
 MAV_1_CONFIG, 102        
SER_TEL2_BAUD, 38400        
```  

## Comment4
### Comment author: davids5
### Comment Time: Aug 8, 2020
### Comment Content:   
I have Isolated the problem and will have a fix in next week.  

## Comment5
### Comment author: davids5
### Comment Time: Aug 10, 2020
### Comment Content:   
Please re-test with \\\#15528  
