# Basic Information:
### Title:  Propellers not spinning in offboard with thrust and torque setpoint #21518 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: salvamarce
### Issue open time: Apr 26, 2023
# Report
### Report author: salvamarce
### Report Time: Apr 26, 2023
### Report Content:   
Describe the bug  
v1.13.3  
I am trying to control the iris in Offboard flight mode, sending the thrust and torque setpoints with ROS 2 and the micrortps agent. The drone gets armed but the propellers don't spin, even if the setpoints are present on the topic.  
To Reproduce  
Steps to reproduce the behavior:  
1.Add  
    
```bash     
 - msg: vehicle_torque_setpoint        
   receive: true        
- msg: vehicle_thrust_setpoint        
  receive: true        
```  
into msg/tools/urtps_bridge_topics.yaml and generate the topic by launching the script.    
2. Clean the ROS 2 workspace and build again with the script in the package px4_ros_com    
3. Set <enable_lockstep>0</enable_lockstep> in the .sdf.jinja file of the desired drone (iris)    
4. Start the simulation with make px4_sitl_rtps gazebo    
5. Start the micrortps agent with micrortps_agent -t UDP    
6. Check that the topics for the torques and thrust are available    
7.  Open QGC    
8. Then I launch my offboard application, which consists just in arming the drone and after sending full thrust on Z    
9. The drone gets armed but the propellers don't spin (but the topic is receiving the message)  
Expected behavior  
The drone should arm and then the propellers should spin  
Log Files and Screenshots  
https://review.px4.io/plot_app?log=ebfc4251-ef61-4a8a-b592-deee7df20a88  
Drone  
- Iris sitl_gazebo  
Additional context  
Is there an example of offboard with thrust and torque setpoints?  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: beniaminopozzan
### Comment Time: Apr 26, 2023
### Comment Content:   
I don't know if that is the main issue, but you are missing a step when disabling the lockstep https://docs.px4.io/main/en/simulation/\\\#disable-lockstep-simulation  
How did you fill the OffboardControlMode message?  
while you are in offboard mode and the drone should respond to your vehicle_thrust_setpoint and vehicle_torque_setpoints, what is the output of listener vehicle_thrust_setpoint and listener vehicle_torque_setpoints?  

## Comment2
### Comment author: salvamarce
### Comment Time: Apr 28, 2023
### Comment Content:   
    
I don't know if that is the main issue, but you are missing a step when disabling the lockstep https://docs.px4.io/main/en/simulation/\\\\#disable-lockstep-simulation    
Yes, I've also done that. I forgot to put that in the steps  
    
How did you fill the OffboardControlMode message?    
This is my message  
    
```bash     
 OffboardControlMode msg{};        
msg.timestamp = timestamp_.load();        
msg.position = false;        
msg.velocity = false;        
msg.acceleration = false;        
msg.attitude = false;        
msg.body_rate = false;        
msg.actuator = true;        
offboard_control_mode_publisher_->publish(msg);        
```  
    
While you are in offboard mode and the drone should respond to your vehicle_thrust_setpoint and vehicle_torque_setpoints, what is the output of listener vehicle_thrust_setpoint and listener vehicle_torque_setpoints?    
While the drone is arming I set everything to 0.0 and after it is armed, I sent full thrust    
/fmu/vehicle_torque_setpoint/in:  
    
```bash     
 timestamp: 1682701663360937        
timestamp_sample: 0        
xyz:        
- 0.0        
- 0.0        
- 0.0        
---        
```  
/fmu/vehicle_thrust_setpoint/in  
    
```bash     
 timestamp: 1682701663360937        
timestamp_sample: 0        
xyz:        
- 0.0        
- 0.0        
- 1.0        
---        
```  
I've also tried to send -1 on the Z, thinking that it was the problem but nothing changed.  

## Comment3
### Comment author: beniaminopozzan
### Comment Time: Apr 28, 2023
### Comment Content:   
@salvamarce , please fill timestamp_sample too and give it another try.  
FYI, for standard quadrotors vehicle_thrust_setpoint.xyz[3] (the z) is negative as the frame is FRD  
I should have asked this earlier, but you have the control allocation module active, right?  

## Comment4
### Comment author: salvamarce
### Comment Time: Apr 28, 2023
### Comment Content:   
I found the error. The problem was with the configuration of the control allocation parameters that were not all set (I forgot the PWM_MAIN_FUNC).    
Actually, it seems that is not mandatory to change the boardconfig if the lockstep is disabled in the URDF.  
Is there a documentation section about the offboard flight mode with torque and thrust setpoints? because I struggled a bit these days, just to reach pieces of information here and there.  
Anyway, thanks for your kind help, and sorry if I opened a silly issue  

## Comment5
### Comment author: beniaminopozzan
### Comment Time: Apr 28, 2023
### Comment Content:   
Great!  
The documentation for main is here: https://docs.px4.io/main/en/flight_modes/offboard.html\\\#copter  
FYI, as you may have noticed, it is very hard to solve issues about offboard control as PX4 is not the only component involved, therefore just reproducing the issue itself can be very problematic.  

## Comment6
### Comment author: salvamarce
### Comment Time: Apr 29, 2023
### Comment Content:   
Ok thanks.    
I was using the documentation for the version v1.13, because I'm using the v1.13.3.  

## Comment7
### Comment author: rrajnidhi
### Comment Time: May 16, 2023
### Comment Content:   
Hello all,    
I was wondering if offboard with thrust and torque setpoint will work with fixed wing or with VTOL ?  
