# Basic Information:
### Title:  SITL jmavsim crazy pitch rate oscillations #14303 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: MaEtUgR
### Issue open time: Mar 5, 2020
### Fixed by: #14622
# Report
### Report author: MaEtUgR
### Report Time: Mar 5, 2020
### Report Content:   
To Reproduce    
Steps to reproduce the behavior:  
1.master on this commit 2b087a9  
2.run make px4_sitl jmavsim  
3.immediately switch to altitude mode and takeoff by pushing up with the stick  
4.Don't move the sticks anymore and see the drone having fast and extreme pitch oscillation for multiple seconds  
Expected behavior    
There used to be stable flight from the beginning on.  
Log Files and Screenshots    
https://logs.px4.io/plot_app?log=44c727a2-9b7c-43e7-b86d-f4d58e5e50d3    
Additional context  
- Suspect might be simulator: set sensor update rate according to HIL_SENSOR bitmask \\\\\\#14228 (NOT YET VERIFIED)    
I'll do some further testing to narrow it down.  
FYI @TSC21 @Jaeyoung-Lim  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: MaEtUgR
### Comment Time: Mar 5, 2020
### Comment Content:   
I bisected it to come from the vehicle_angular_velocity filtering:    
24f0c2d\\\#diff-e1d4d75170cc48374d5f144ebfca43d9    
The oscillation only happens shortly after boot and it stops exactly when the message    
INFO  [vehicle_angular_velocity] updating filter, sample rate: 1000.000 Hz -> 250.000 Hz    
is displayed coming from 24f0c2d\\\#diff-e1d4d75170cc48374d5f144ebfca43d9R112  
Sorry @TSC21 for any suspicion, I thought it's simulation specific.  

## Comment2
### Comment author: MaEtUgR
### Comment Time: Mar 5, 2020
### Comment Content:   
@dagar Not sure if this is a crucial real world issue since in real world you usually don't take off that fast but it's still undesired and we should try to get rid of the delay. How did it work before?  
FYI @bkueng  

## Comment3
### Comment author: dagar
### Comment Time: Mar 5, 2020
### Comment Content:   
    
@dagar Not sure if this is a crucial real world issue since in real world you usually don't take off that fast but it's still undesired and we should try to get rid of the delay. How did it work before?    
FYI @bkueng    
There have been a few iterations in the last year, but at one point the LPF was in the sim driver itself (sometimes with an incorrect sample rate), then it moved to PX4Accelerometer/PX4Gyroscope where the driver was setting the sample rate (again incorrectly in many cases), then it finally moved to sensors/vehicle_angular_velocity where we started measuring the sample rate ourselves.  
We need to either set a more appropriate default value or update it sooner (or both). Having the simulator provide sensor data closer to a real system (1 kHz instead of 250 Hz) would also be nice, but I'm not sure if that's realistic and it would break the recent lockstep ekf2_timestamp fixes.  
https://github.com/PX4/Firmware/blob/b9fab04adbfd92783206a08364c8fea077f1ed39/src/modules/sensors/vehicle_angular_velocity/VehicleAngularVelocity.hpp\\\#L103  
Note: mc_rate_control is also doing something similar to get the sample rate. This would go away with \\\#14048.    
https://github.com/PX4/Firmware/blob/b9fab04adbfd92783206a08364c8fea077f1ed39/src/modules/mc_rate_control/MulticopterRateControl.cpp\\\#L243-L255  

## Comment4
### Comment author: LucaMex
### Comment Time: Mar 11, 2020
### Comment Content:   
I don't know if that might be useful, but I've noticed (running separately px4_sitl and jmavsim) that the error occurs only (or mainly?) when the lockstep isn't used  

## Comment5
### Comment author: TSC21
### Comment Time: Mar 12, 2020
### Comment Content:   
This is a real issue not only in jMAVSim but also in Gazebo. It can also be reproduced in the Solo for example.  

## Comment6
### Comment author: MaEtUgR
### Comment Time: Mar 12, 2020
### Comment Content:   
I was running lockstep with the normal linux setup.  
