# Basic Information:
### Title:  Takeoff ramp broken #15408 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: ThomasRigi
### Issue open time: Jul 23, 2020
### Fixed by: #15509
# Report
### Report author: ThomasRigi
### Report Time: Jul 23, 2020
### Report Content:   
Describe the bug    
With MPC_TKO_RAMP_T = 5s the drone does not take off anymore when starting a mission. With MPC_TKO_RAMP_T = 3s it still takes off, but only after 4s not doing anything and then taking off with a ramp time of 1s.  
To Reproduce    
Steps to reproduce the behavior:  
1.Checkout current master (aa7735c)  
2.Launch SITL. I used make px4_sitl gazebo_standard_vtol  
3.Set MPC_TKO_RAMP_T = 5 (1st log)  
4.Load a mission. E.g. square vtol.zip  
5.Start the mission  
6.The drone does not take off.  
7.Repeat with MPC_TKO_RAMP_T = 3 (2nd log) and MPC_TKO_RAMP_T = 1 (3rd log) and observe the differences  
Expected behavior    
The drone should take off gently respecting MPC_TKO_RAMP_T.  
Log Files and Screenshots    
https://logs.px4.io/plot_app?log=0aa9b360-1230-4944-9159-4fb03aabd9d3    
https://logs.px4.io/plot_app?log=44529271-2e29-4827-a09a-64d78b725c6d    
https://logs.px4.io/plot_app?log=f698d92c-6636-496b-921a-5bc2c3d8a02f  
Drone (please complete the following information):    
Tested with gazebo standard_vtol  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: MaEtUgR
### Comment Time: Jul 27, 2020
### Comment Content:   
I'm convinced the problem is this part: https://github.com/PX4/Firmware/blob/7354e3989335dfb38cc41216182f48fe84d165c7/src/lib/flight_tasks/tasks/AutoLineSmoothVel/FlightTaskAutoLineSmoothVel.cpp\\\#L335-L342  
@ThomasRigi Could you try the same experiment with that block commented and see if that solves your issues?  

## Comment2
### Comment author: ThomasRigi
### Comment Time: Aug 3, 2020
### Comment Content:   
@MaEtUgR With these lines commented, the drone takes off with a nice ramp, but obviously ignores MPC_TKO_SPEED.  
https://logs.px4.io/plot_app?log=c376d64e-d23d-4052-8149-66a6bf6b8ac8  
In our use case we don't really care about MPC_TKO_SPEED as we prefer to have one long smooth ramp until the final speed. So commenting these lines works for us, but it's not a nice fix for people who rely on MPC_TKO_SPEED.  
