# Basic Information:
### Title:  Throttle quickly goes to 0 on RTL init after idle HOLD/RTL on ground #13533 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: julianoes
### Issue open time: Nov 20, 2019
### Fixed by: #13534
# Report
### Report author: julianoes
### Report Time: Nov 20, 2019
### Report Content:   
Describe the bug    
We found the corner case where throttle intermittently went to 0 when RTL is engaged.    
The reason seems to be a faulty logic of triplet resetting and publishing in navigator.  
More specifically, navigator publishes an idle setpoint while in HOLD on ground:    
https://github.com/PX4/Firmware/blob/84fe64b1c20a4ae8067f04b1e21a961263bac4db/src/modules/navigator/navigator_main.cpp\\\#L662-L666  
then in POSCTL the triplet is set to invalid    
https://github.com/PX4/Firmware/blob/84fe64b1c20a4ae8067f04b1e21a961263bac4db/src/modules/navigator/navigator_main.cpp\\\#L675-L679  
but not published because it's invalid.    
https://github.com/PX4/Firmware/blob/84fe64b1c20a4ae8067f04b1e21a961263bac4db/src/modules/navigator/navigator_main.cpp\\\#L730-L736  
So later when switching to RTL, flight task still has the idle setpoint until navigator has run and published the new RTL setpoint.  
To Reproduce    
Steps to reproduce the behavior in SITL with QGC and a joystick set-up:  
1.Start SITL, wait for GPS  
2.Switch mode to HOLD, arm, then disarm without taking off  
3.Arm and takeoff in POSCTL  
4.Switch to RTL. This is when the spike to 0 usually happens. It might not based on timing and it might only be visible in a log.  
Expected behavior    
The thrust should not go to 0 even if navigator takes a while to figure out what to do. In the meantime flight task should do a failsafe and stay where it is.  
Log Files and Screenshots    
https://logs.px4.io/plot_app?log=f1b66ae0-3751-481a-89cb-c7b9adc12037  
Drone (please complete the following information):    
Initially this happened on a S500 with Pixhawk 4. The log is in SITL.  
Additional context    
The log features a lot more that goes wrong but this was one of the findings.  

# Comment