# Basic Information:
### Title:  NXPhlite - 21Mhz SDCARD clock radiating EMI RF interference. FCC CE  #10627 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: igalloway
### Issue open time: Oct 2, 2018
# Report
### Report author: igalloway
### Report Time: Oct 2, 2018
### Report Content:   
Describe the bug    
SDCARD has 21Mhz SD_CLOCK which is radiating and causing RF emissions failing FCC (also effecting GPS?)    
The slew rate on this clock pin is set to high, problem resolved when set to low.  
To Reproduce    
Run with SDCARD installed. Look on Spectrum analyser at 148Mhz near SDCARD.    
Interference gone when SDCARD removed.    
GPS jamming level goes from ~140 to ~70  
Expected behavior    
Quiet Spectrum - or at least below FCC/CE limits  
Drone (please complete the following information):  
- NXPhlite - S500  
Additional context    
We believe this is solved, although one brand of SDCARD failed sd_bench with the low slew rate setting.    
David S has updated the code with the latest PR.    
Validating various SDCARDs, GPS response, and will go for a new pre-scan asap.    
Next revision of hardware to address shielding of this clock line and also tuning resistor.  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: stale
### Comment Time: Jan 20, 2019
### Comment Content:   
This issue has been automatically marked as stale because it has not had recent activity. It will be closed if no further activity occurs. Thank you for your contributions.  

## Comment2
### Comment author: stale
### Comment Time: Feb 4, 2019
### Comment Content:   
Closing as stale.  
