# Basic Information:
### Title:  PX4 is not sending RTCMStream DroneCAN msgs #20134 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: vincentpoont2
### Issue open time: Aug 31, 2022
# Report
### Report author: vincentpoont2
### Report Time: Aug 31, 2022
### Report Content:   
Describe the bug  
PX4 is not sending RTCMStream DroneCAN msgs, which it should be sending when it gets GPS_RTCM_DATA MAVLink messages. Test with DroneCAN F9P RTK, used DroneCAN GUI tool and PX4 isn't sending them.  
To Reproduce  
Using a DroneCAN F9P RTK, unable to get RTK GPS Lock.    
Repeat the same with a i2c F9P RTK, no issue    

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: AlexKlimaj
### Comment Time: Sep 2, 2022
### Comment Content:   
Enable UAVCAN_PUB_RTCM    
https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot/blob/main/src/drivers/uavcan/uavcan_params.c\\\#L207  

## Comment2
### Comment author: OfficerJannis
### Comment Time: Sep 6, 2022
### Comment Content:   
I have the same problem. I tested the issue with an Here3 GPS in CAN mode, aswell as in serial mode:  
In CAN mode the GPS lock does not switch to RTK (float), although i was sending RTCM-Date via MavLink.    
When i open the CLI, the uavcan status printout gnss rtcm publisher counter increases.  
In serial mode the GPS lock switches immediately to RTK (float) if i send RTCM-Data via MavLink.  
I tested this with the latest stable PX4 1.13.    
The parameter UAVCAN_PUB_RTCM mentioned by @AlexKlimaj  is not in the latest stable build.  
Then i also tested the latest developer build (master) which has the parameter UAVCAN_PUB_RTCM included. I also enabled it.    
In CAN mode i don't get RTK and the the uavcan status printout gnss rtcm publisher counter stops at 1 event.    
I also enabled the UAVCAN_PUB_MBD parameter, still no RTK.  

## Comment3
### Comment author: AlexKlimaj
### Comment Time: Sep 6, 2022
### Comment Content:   
UAVCAN_PUB_RTCM is currently broken in main. See the fix here \\\#20056  

## Comment4
### Comment author: AlexKlimaj
### Comment Time: Sep 15, 2022
### Comment Content:   
Fixed with \\\#20056  
