# Basic Information:
### Title:  The color/sound feedback of failed preflight check is only happening if QGC is connected #10999 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: AlexisTM
### Issue open time: Dec 6, 2018
# Report
### Report author: AlexisTM
### Report Time: Dec 6, 2018
### Report Content:   
Describe the bug    
If a preflight check fails without a Groundstation, the error goes silent and just fails to arm.    
If a preflight check fails with a Groundstation, we have a LED red blinking and sound feedback.  
To Reproduce    
Steps to reproduce the behavior with QGC  
1.Missconfigure sensor to trigger "MAG inconsistent", "High ACC bias" or any other preflight check error.  
2.Power the copter with QGcontrol  
3.Ear the feedback, see the LED  
4.Try to arm, it fails.  
Steps to reproduce the behavior without QGC  
1.Missconfigure sensor to trigger "MAG inconsistent", "High ACC bias" or any other preflight check error the same way as before  
2.Power the copter without QGcontrol  
3.Try to arm, it fails.  
4.Connect QGc  
5.Ear the feedback, see the LED  
6.Try to arm, it fails.  
Expected behavior    
Have LED & sound feedback when we are flying without groundcontrol station  
Drone (please complete the following information):  
- PX4 1.8.2 with temporary terraranger fix (bus change)  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: dagar
### Comment Time: Dec 6, 2018
### Comment Content:   
That's a weird one. Let's take this opportunity to further consolidate the preflight checking and prevent the possibility of these kinds of inconsistencies.  
While we're on the subject what do you think of the current lights and sounds for preflight issues, unable to arm, or arming itself?  

## Comment2
### Comment author: AlexisTM
### Comment Time: Dec 6, 2018
### Comment Content:   
I think it should beep when it fails a check, and red blinkink additionally when impaired to fly.  
Also, it seems that once it failed the preflight checks, it will not stop to blink red until we actually arm.    
I guess the preflight check is running once once booted then for each arming command? If it is the case, it should instead do the preflight checks again.  
We often have preflight checks failures at boot yet we are sometimes capable to takeoff safely afterwards. It could be due to sensor booting time, moving the copter just after connecting it?  

## Comment3
### Comment author: stale
### Comment Time: Mar 6, 2019
### Comment Content:   
This issue has been automatically marked as stale because it has not had recent activity. It will be closed if no further activity occurs. Thank you for your contributions.  

## Comment4
### Comment author: stale
### Comment Time: Mar 20, 2019
### Comment Content:   
Closing as stale.  
