# Basic Information:
### Title:  no_sim=1 command ends up opening up a gazebo simulator #20158 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: returncode13
### Issue open time: Sep 3, 2022
# Report
### Report author: returncode13
### Report Time: Sep 3, 2022
### Report Content:   
Describe the bug  
I am trying to launch px4 sitl while launching gazebo separately via ros.  as described in https://docs.px4.io/main/en/simulation/ros_interface.html\\\#what-s-happening-behind-the-scenes    
Expect    
no_sim=1  make   px4_sitl_default   gazebo    
to start px4 sitl without launching a gazebo simulator    
But I find that this launches the simulator ignoring  the no_sim=1 flag.  
To Reproduce  
Steps to reproduce the behavior:  
1.clone this repo  
2.run the command  " no_sim=1  make  px4_sitl_default  gazebo "  
Expected behavior  
The px4 sitl coming up without a simulator  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: dagar
### Comment Time: Sep 3, 2022
### Comment Content:   
At the moment in the main branch simulation is in flux and we need to do a sweep to gets the docs back in sync.  
If currently on main you can now simply run the px4 binary directly after compiling.  
    
```bash     
 $ make px4_sitl_default      
$ ./build/bin/px4    
```  
The makefile target helpers still exist, but I'm trying to make it as easy as possible to run px4 directly.    
Within PX4 running you can set the SYS_AUTOSTART parameter or you you can pass an environment variable PX4_SYS_AUTOSTART=4001, etc.  
Please let me know your full use case and I'll try to make it as streamlined as possible, I'm currently focused on new Gazebo (formally known as Ignition Gazebo).  

## Comment2
### Comment author: returncode13
### Comment Time: Sep 4, 2022
### Comment Content:   
Hi @dagar . The use case is a simple learning exercise to separate px4 and have gazebo open as part of ros launch, insert a model and have the sitl connect with gazebo . Thank you for the workaround. Closing this issue.  

## Comment3
### Comment author: dagar
### Comment Time: Sep 4, 2022
### Comment Content:   
Thanks for the response, let me know how it goes. We'll also have much deeper integration with PX4 in ROS2 soon.  
