# Basic Information:
### Title:  BARO timeout when running SITL gazebo-classic nolockstep on Rover - main branch #21043 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: russkel
### Issue open time: Feb 2, 2023
# Report
### Report author: russkel
### Report Time: Feb 2, 2023
### Report Content:   
Describe the bug  
Barometer timeout errors appear in the shell.  
    
```bash     
 ERROR [vehicle_air_data] BARO \\\\#0 failed:  TIMEOUT!	        
INFO  [vehicle_air_data] BARO switch from \\\\#0 -> \\\\#1        
```  
To Reproduce  
Steps to reproduce the behavior:  
1.Launched SITL from within Docker  
2.Observe errors on shell  
    
```bash     
 ./Tools/docker_run.sh 'make px4_sitl_nolockstep gazebo-classic_rover'        
```  
Expected behavior  
No barometer errors.  
Log Files and Screenshots  
https://logs.px4.io/plot_app?log=0352673a-690e-41a0-93cd-363471be4c7a  
Drone (please complete the following information):  
- SITL Gazebo-classic rover  
Additional context  
Running up to date main branch as of posting. It didn't seem to occur in stable branch.    
It also occurs as far back as 5a2e41c  
Also nuttx commands (ls, ps etc) seem to not be enabled in SITL?  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: 321thijs123
### Comment Time: May 12, 2023
### Comment Content:   
Have you been able to solve this? I'm running into the same issue while trying to do thrust and torque command with px4_sitl_nolockstep.  

## Comment2
### Comment author: russkel
### Comment Time: May 15, 2023
### Comment Content:   
    
Have you been able to solve this? I'm running into the same issue while trying to do thrust and torque command with px4_sitl_nolockstep.    
Only by turning off the sensors using the SYS_HAS_BARO parameter.  

## Comment3
### Comment author: matiasguzmanp
### Comment Time: Aug 20, 2024
### Comment Content:   
Hi! Did you manage to solve this issue? I'm having the exact same problem. The magnetometer also fails.  

## Comment4
### Comment author: russkel
### Comment Time: Aug 22, 2024
### Comment Content:   
Sorry, I stopped using PX4 and started using Ardupilot as it had better support.  
