# Basic Information:
### Title:  Firmware broken on Crazyflie 2.0 hardware -- unable to connect to the nsh console using mavlink  #13946 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: xiangyu-wu
### Issue open time: Jan 15, 2020
### Fixed by: #15421
# Report
### Report author: xiangyu-wu
### Report Time: Jan 15, 2020
### Report Content:   
Describe the bug    
Unable to connect to the nsh console of crazyflie 2.0. I did a bisection on the Firmware commits and found that the connection problem started from this merge. I was able to compile and flash the codes, but I was unable to connect to the nsh console using mavlink afterwards. A similar issue was reported before but was not resolved.  
To Reproduce    
Steps to reproduce the behavior:  
1.Compile the default PX4 firmware for the crazyflie 2.0.  
2.Connect your computer to the vehicle via a usb port and flash the vehicle.  
3.Try to connect to the nsh console using the command ./Tools/mavlink_shell.py /dev/ttyACM0 (You may use dmesg to see if the crazyflie 2.0 corresponds to /dev/ttyACM0 or some other path.)  
4.The connection get stuck forever after displaying "Connecting to MAVLINK..." and no error message was displayed.  
Expected behavior    
The connection succeeds and the console displays nsh>  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: dagar
### Comment Time: Jan 24, 2020
### Comment Content:   
I'm ordering hardware to debug and ultimately add to the test rack.  

## Comment2
### Comment author: stale
### Comment Time: May 15, 2020
### Comment Content:   
This issue has been automatically marked as stale because it has not had recent activity. Thank you for your contributions.  

## Comment3
### Comment author: dagar
### Comment Time: Jul 27, 2020
### Comment Content:   
Should be fixed in \\\#15421.  

## Comment4
### Comment author: stale
### Comment Time: Dec 25, 2020
### Comment Content:   
This issue has been automatically marked as stale because it has not had recent activity. Thank you for your contributions.  
