# Basic Information:
### Title:  Stm32H7 hard fault  when SPI2 and I2C4 work together #14274 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: ShiauweiZhao
### Issue open time: Mar 2, 2020
# Report
### Report author: ShiauweiZhao
### Report Time: Mar 2, 2020
### Report Content:   
Describe the bug    
I have a stm32H7 hardware ，drive barometer using SPI2 interface,and driver magnetometer（ ist8308 ）using I2C4 and I2C3  interface，when I run both drivers in the work queue，the system will generate hard fault.    
I am according to the documentation to locate where the hard falut happened，the hard fault happened in  spi read when it be called in work quene transfer.  
To Reproduce  
Expected behavior    
A clear and concise description of what you expected to happen.  
Log Files and Screenshots    
Always provide a link to the flight log file:    
fault log     
elf file     
debug uart console  
    
```bash     
 (gdb) info line *0x080d84b9        
Line 134 of "../../src/lib/drivers/device/nuttx/SPI.cpp"        
   starts at address 0x80d84b4 <device::SPI::transfer(unsigned char*, unsigned char*, unsigned int)+18>        
   and ends at 0x80d84bc <device::SPI::transfer(unsigned char*, unsigned char*, unsigned int)+26>.        
(gdb) info line *0x080d84fe        
Line 147 of "../../src/lib/drivers/device/nuttx/SPI.cpp"        
   starts at address 0x80d84fa <device::SPI::transfer(unsigned char*, unsigned char*, unsigned int)+88>        
   and ends at 0x80d8502 <device::SPI::transfer(unsigned char*, unsigned char*, unsigned int)+96>.        
```  
and I can push my code if necessary。  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: julianoes
### Comment Time: Mar 2, 2020
### Comment Content:   
How can anyone reproduce this to fix it?  

## Comment2
### Comment author: ShiauweiZhao
### Comment Time: Mar 2, 2020
### Comment Content:   
my imu bmi088 in SPI4 and baro（tcbp001ta）in SPI2    
and I2C3 is external magnetometer（ist8308）  I2C4 is internal magnetometer （ist8308）    
Just can't work when SPI2 and I2C3 or I2C4 together。  

## Comment3
### Comment author: dagar
### Comment Time: Mar 2, 2020
### Comment Content:   
If you open pull requests for the IST8308 magnetometer or tcbp001ta (model?) barometer we could take a look and maintain them upstream, otherwise there's not much we can do here.  
There shouldn't be any overlap between these things unless there's an error. Each workqueue is a separate thread, so all the activity, locking, etc should be independent.  

## Comment4
### Comment author: ShiauweiZhao
### Comment Time: Mar 3, 2020
### Comment Content:   
please view the pr \\\#14286。    
thank you very much！  

## Comment5
### Comment author: ShiauweiZhao
### Comment Time: Apr 24, 2020
### Comment Content:   
in the master branch，this problem is fixed  
