# Basic Information:
### Title:  Battery emergency RTL initiate climb command, even if drone already landing #14479 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: BazookaJoe1900
### Issue open time: Mar 25, 2020
### Fixed by: #14960
# Report
### Report author: BazookaJoe1900
### Report Time: Mar 25, 2020
### Report Content:   
Describe the bug    
I found on a flight that I have came to nearly empty battery that there is something that look to me like bug in the emergency and critical battery logic.    
I started to land in nearly empty battery, but then the emergency battery logic intiated, and instead of continue landing, it started to RTL (climbing), I took control to RC and landed.    
it seems that COM_LOW_BAT_ACT doesn't respect the current flight mode, and if the drone has already started to land, it can re-initiate action, that might be climbing.  
To Reproduce  
-     
in order to reproduce easily in simulator I have changed the next parameters:      
BAT_LOW_THR = 30%      
BAT_EMERGEN_THR  = 20%      
BAT_CRIT_THR = 10%      
COM_LOW_BAT_ACT = 3 (Return mode at critically low level, Land mode at current position if reaching dangerously low levels)      
RTL_RETURN_ALT = 100m      
SIM_BAT_MIN_PCT = 0%    
-     
take-off    
-     
fly to another location    
-     
climb to 20m    
-     
wait that the battery will get to ~30% and start land    
-     
the RTL will be initiated, starting with climbing (and here the bug)    
Expected behavior    
in case of already started landing, don't initiate RTL. and don't re-initiate landing  
Log Files and Screenshots    
https://review.px4.io/plot_app?log=c50117f1-3f81-4141-af5f-5e905ea239e5    
Drone (please complete the following information):  
- simulation (master 25/3/2020)  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: BazookaJoe1900
### Comment Time: Apr 19, 2020
### Comment Content:   
@julianoes Is there someone I can refer this issue?    
I am not that familiar with this sections of code, and its critical code, so I don't want want to mess things there.  

## Comment2
### Comment author: julianoes
### Comment Time: Apr 20, 2020
### Comment Content:   
@RomanBapst might have a better idea.  

## Comment3
### Comment author: stale
### Comment Time: Jul 19, 2020
### Comment Content:   
This issue has been automatically marked as stale because it has not had recent activity. Thank you for your contributions.  

## Comment4
### Comment author: BazookaJoe1900
### Comment Time: Jul 19, 2020
### Comment Content:   
still relevant  

## Comment5
### Comment author: stale
### Comment Time: Dec 25, 2020
### Comment Content:   
This issue has been automatically marked as stale because it has not had recent activity. Thank you for your contributions.  
