# Basic Information:
### Title:  Switching of magneto on 1.13.2 causing spinning drone and crash #21544 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: Katawann
### Issue open time: May 3, 2023
# Report
### Report author: Katawann
### Report Time: May 3, 2023
### Report Content:   
Describe the bug  
We had a crash with our hexacopter 😭 using PX4 v1.13.2 . In Position mode, the drone started to turn on itself and it was impossible to take the control back... The only thing I see in the log is the loss of RTK to DGNSS at that time but nothing else. Is it possible that this loss of RTK caused this kind of behavior ?  
But even if I loose RTK, I don't understand why the drone started to spin as the heading of our drone is defined by the magnetometer  
Thank you for all the help you can give me !  
To Reproduce  
Not sure yet...  
Log Files and Screenshots  
Log of crash: https://logs.px4.io/plot_app?log=5a129e78-ebf0-4ae1-a331-69c0af8ec51a  
Two flights have been done before with the same batteries without any warning at all from what I see:  
- https://logs.px4.io/plot_app?log=a977375d-2e7f-4f74-bd5a-b9bf3b7155a3  
- https://logs.px4.io/plot_app?log=82b4db9e-08ad-4fc9-bd0f-3867701895f8  
Drone (please complete the following information):  
- Hexacopter with PX4 v1.13.2 and Pixhawk 4  
- Primary GPS is CUAV ublox F9P  
- Secondary GPS is Holybro M8N  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: Katawann
### Comment Time: May 3, 2023
### Comment Content:   
I tried to look deeper to the log. Actually I'm not sure the loss of RTK is related at all to the crash. From what I understand, at 15:46 the drone stop to follow Yaw input from pilot and start to have continuous setpoint in one direction... The loss of RTK only happen at 16:03 when the drone already touch the ground.  
Also to mention, I had an error message of type "Critical: Mag timeout error". We recalibrate the compass once but the error was still there so we change the Holybro M8N and recalibrate the compass again. Now I regret we did not took more care of this error...  
@bresch could you confirm my observation ? Any advice why this error happen and what can be done to fix it ?  

## Comment2
### Comment author: Katawann
### Comment Time: May 7, 2023
### Comment Content:   
I did some tests without propellers.  
- https://logs.px4.io/plot_app?log=35ca6c2d-bd17-4dfc-8623-24aca53d2e6a  
- https://logs.px4.io/plot_app?log=5ce89b7d-708f-42c7-9459-37c620d6f304  
Why this message is showing here and how to solve it ?  
    
```bash     
 INFO  [vehicle_magnetometer] MAG switch from \\\\#1 -> \\\\#2        
ERROR [vehicle_magnetometer] MAG \\\\#1 failed:  TIMEOUT!	        
WARN  [ekf2] 1 - mag sensor ID changeWARN  [ekf2] 0 - mag sensor ID changed 396809 -> 396817        
d 396809 -> 396817        
```  

## Comment3
### Comment author: Katawann
### Comment Time: May 8, 2023
### Comment Content:   
It looks like it was a short circuit between two wires of the external magnetometer. Changing the cable seems to fix the issue. I'll reopen if error is back even with the new cable  

## Comment4
### Comment author: Katawann
### Comment Time: May 10, 2023
### Comment Content:   
Well actually it is not fixed by changing the cable. We armed more than 30 times (without propellers) before the issue happens again...    
https://logs.px4.io/plot_app?log=47a86a01-f5d1-4091-827c-fda1c99754d8  

## Comment5
### Comment author: Katawann
### Comment Time: Jun 6, 2023
### Comment Content:   
Conclusion was that the motors were not tight enough. So one motor move and implied the spinning of the drone  
