# Basic Information:
### Title:  Rover: GPS loss leads to "fixed bank loiter" instead of just stopping #13467 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: jbeyerstedt
### Issue open time: Nov 14, 2019
# Report
### Report author: jbeyerstedt
### Report Time: Nov 14, 2019
### Report Content:   
When the GPS position is lost during a mission, the rover switches to a "fixed bank loiter", which is nice for a fixed wing aircraft, but not necessary for a ground vehicle.    
(I just tested in SITL and not with a real rover.)  
To Reproduce    
Steps to reproduce the behavior:  
1.Start rover and QCG  
2.create and upload a mission and start the mission  
3.turn off GPS in nxh with gpssim stop at any point in the mission  
4.obverse two warning messages in QGC  
    
```bash     
 WARN  [commander] Failsafe enabled: no global position        
WARN  [navigator] Global position failure: fixed bank loiter        
```  
Current behavior    
The vehicle outputs cruising? throttle (PWM 1665) and a zero degree steering angle (PWM 1492). The roll set point is set to 15 degrees, which has no effect on a rover.  
Expected behavior    
Just stop driving  
Log Files and Screenshots  
- Flight log: https://logs.px4.io/plot_app?log=b8a6959a-7e85-4ebb-8473-d9d930775e3e  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: stale
### Comment Time: Feb 12, 2020
### Comment Content:   
This issue has been automatically marked as stale because it has not had recent activity. Thank you for your contributions.  

## Comment2
### Comment author: stale
### Comment Time: May 25, 2020
### Comment Content:   
This issue has been automatically marked as stale because it has not had recent activity. Thank you for your contributions.  

## Comment3
### Comment author: chfriedrich98
### Comment Time: Sep 13, 2024
### Comment Content:   
Cleaning up rover related issues:    
Behaviour has changed since this issue was opened: The rover goes into land/descend mode on gps loss, which stops the rover as requested here.  
