# Basic Information:
### Title:  Tiltrotor VTOL: unallcated yaw torque #20395 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: sfuhrer
### Issue open time: Oct 12, 2022
# Report
### Report author: sfuhrer
### Report Time: Oct 12, 2022
### Report Content:   
Describe the bug  
There is very often some left over (unallocated) yaw torque, even though the tilts are not saturating. Reason is that when the tilts are used for yaw control, they are meant to move symmetrically to the front and back, but back is limited and thus there is some leftover torque not allocated. The unsaturation method likely doesn't work because it's very much customized for pure multicopters.  
To Reproduce  
Reproducible in SITL, tiltrotor model.  
Expected behavior  
No unallocated yaw torque unless actuators are really saturating (in this case were clearly not), and thus also don't have a frozen integrator half of the flight.  
Log Files and Screenshots  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: sfuhrer
### Comment Time: Oct 12, 2022
### Comment Content:   
@bkueng curious for your input here.  
Cleanest solution is probably to either move to a customized allocation for tiltrotors (at least handle the saturation similarly to what is done for helicopters), or make the desaturation less multicopter-specific.    
For a short term fix I would propose to parametrize the thresholds for saturation detection, then that could be temporarily increased for tiltrotors.  

## Comment2
### Comment author: bkueng
### Comment Time: Oct 13, 2022
### Comment Content:   
It seems to me that we shouldn't be using the unallocated torque for this directly. There's cases where the smallest amount of unallocated torque saturates already, while in others, as here, there's more room.    
I'd rather let the allocation publish saturation values in the fixed range of [-1, 1], which allows the rate controller to gradually reduce, and at the same time the allocation can set the values to {-1, 0, 1} in the general case, and add more granularity where we know better.    
And then use a more appropriate desaturation logic for tiltrotors.  

## Comment3
### Comment author: sfuhrer
### Comment Time: Nov 2, 2022
### Comment Content:   
Closing as \\\#20518 is in.  
