# Basic Information:
### Title:  HITL Missing battery parameters #14281 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: depauwjimmy
### Issue open time: Mar 2, 2020
# Report
### Report author: depauwjimmy
### Report Time: Mar 2, 2020
### Report Content:   
I have been struggling for the past week to use a simulator but without any results so far.    
What i wish to achieve is :  
- HITL on a Cube with 1.10.1  
- AirSim  
- Xbox controller for manual control  
Since SITL does not work at all with AirSim i wanted to try HITL but i have a weird problem.    
Fresh flashed system show missing parameters error.  
BAT_V_CHARGED, BAT_N_CELLS and BAT_V_EMPTY  
Since this is as a preflight requirements i just can't do anything.    
This is exactly the same issue as https://discuss.px4.io/t/missing-parameters-on-switching-to-hitl-with-pixhawk4-on-px4-v1-10-0/14423 but this has no answers.  
To reproduce :  
- Fresh flash a Pixhawk2.1 Cube with 1.10.1  
- Select HIL Quadcopter X  
- Reboot  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: julianoes
### Comment Time: Mar 3, 2020
### Comment Content:   
You should be able to work around the preflight errors using:    
https://dev.px4.io/master/en/advanced/parameter_reference.html\\\#CBRK_SUPPLY_CHK  

## Comment2
### Comment author: depauwjimmy
### Comment Time: Mar 4, 2020
### Comment Content:   
Thanks i have managed to start both AirSim and QCG using 2 usb connection which allows me to use a Pad for manual controls.    
Now i have other problems :/  
My biggest issue right now is that it always wants to land and never hover when i release the controls.    
Is COM_OBL_ACT not supposed to prevent it?    
I also get a random  
    
```bash     
 EMERGENCY: Critical navigation failure! Check sensor calibra        
```  
This happen quickly after takeoff and with the forced landing always there it is simply impossible to control.    
Tried with both 1.9.2 and 1.10.1 and behavior is the same.  

## Comment3
### Comment author: rickyjames35
### Comment Time: May 17, 2020
### Comment Content:   
    
I can reproduce this exact bug when using the HITL. I also get this notification when going to "Flight Modes"  

## Comment4
### Comment author: julianoes
### Comment Time: May 18, 2020
### Comment Content:   
    
My biggest issue right now is that it always wants to land and never hover when i release the controls.    
Do you have a log that shows that?  

## Comment5
### Comment author: jasonotu
### Comment Time: Jun 1, 2020
### Comment Content:   
I'm having the same issue.  

## Comment6
### Comment author: stale
### Comment Time: Aug 30, 2020
### Comment Content:   
This issue has been automatically marked as stale because it has not had recent activity. Thank you for your contributions.  

## Comment7
### Comment author: dagar
### Comment Time: Aug 31, 2020
### Comment Content:   
This has been fixed.  

## Comment8
### Comment author: McKayCyborg
### Comment Time: Oct 12, 2020
### Comment Content:   
It appears that this issue is still present in the current PX4 firmware build. I am trying to run HITL using AirSim on a Pixhawk 4 board and I am unable to run a mission due to the following errors:  
When I boot up, it gets this issue with battery parameters:    
Then, when trying to upload a mission, it gets these issues:    
Also, I get a message saying that the vehicle requires setup prior to flight.    
Current setup:    
QGC Version - v4.0.10    
PX4 Firmware version - v1.11.1    
Airframe - HIL Quadcopter X  
What I have tried:  
1.Re-flashing the board  
2.Re-installing QGC  
3.Resetting all parameters on the board  
4.Setting the CBRK_SUPPLY_CHK to 894281  
Nothing appears to work and I am unable to fly a mission. I am able to arm and fly it manually using an RC Radio controller, however.  
Has this issue actually been fixed?  
