# Basic Information:
### Title:  RTL going to wrong Landing location #18271 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: ThomasRigi
### Issue open time: Sep 21, 2021
### Fixed by: #18500
# Report
### Report author: ThomasRigi
### Report Time: Sep 21, 2021
### Report Content:   
Describe the bug    
With RTL_TYPE = 3 and RTL_TYPE = 1 the drone always flies to mission landing to land even if it's by far not the closest point. To be precise, it first flies to the correct RTL position but then instead of descending to RTL_DESCEND_ALT it flies to mission landing to land there...  
More technically:    
The phase corresponding to "RTL: return at 548 m (60 m above destination)" is correct. But as soon as it goes into "RTL: descend to 518 m (30 m above destination)" then it flies to the wrong position.  
To Reproduce    
Reproducible on SITL on v1.12 and master.    
Tested with make px4_sitl gazebo_standard_vtol and the following mission:    
bad RTL.zip  
Trigger RTL when it's closer to home or RP than it is to mission land and observe the bug.  
Expected behavior    
The drone should land at the closest safe point (home, rallypoint) according to the parameter description and not land and mission landing which might be very far away.  
Log Files and Screenshots    
v1.12, RTL_TYPE = 3 : https://logs.px4.io/plot_app?log=98b92060-e3e4-4a81-afcc-16a9dc8315e0    
master, RTL_TYPE = 3: https://logs.px4.io/plot_app?log=a5edc70d-8be0-424f-98dc-0c96f8d31c16    
master, RTL_TYPE = 1: https://logs.px4.io/plot_app?log=9f6e48ee-6b5b-4b2c-83df-3a8de754352d  
For reference, here is what it should look like: (RTL_TYPE = 0)    
https://logs.px4.io/plot_app?log=dbb7f55f-6038-41c1-b009-bbd39c177af7 (I don't like the loitering down, but that's another point)  
Additional context    
Potentially linked to changes in \\\#16377 ? I haven't had time to investigate yet. @sfuhrer @RomanBapst  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: ThomasRigi
### Comment Time: Sep 22, 2021
### Comment Content:   
Why does this line exist:   
```cpp   
 /*PX4-Autopilot/src/modules/navigator/rtl.cppLine 129  
      inf41e598*/destination_type = RTL_DESTINATION_HOME;  
```  
It's not linked to my problem, but I don't understand why there is a need to add this if a VTOL is in MC mode. And more in general I don't fully understand the implications of just changing the destination type but still having the mission landing as destination...  
Edit: probably also linked to   
```cpp   
 /*PX4-Autopilot/src/modules/navigator/rtl.cppLine 243  
      inf41e598*/_deny_mission_landing = _navigator-> get_vstatus ()-> is_vtol  
```  
. I still don't understand why you would not want to go to mission landing if it's a VTOL in MC mode. For me there's no reason to make this distinction.  

## Comment2
### Comment author: ThomasRigi
### Comment Time: Sep 22, 2021
### Comment Content:   
It's this line causing the problem:   
```cpp   
 /*PX4-Autopilot/src/modules/navigator/navigator_main.cppLine 550  
      inf41e598*/if (!rtl_activated && !_rtl. denyMissionLanding () && _rtl. getClimbAndReturnDone ()  
```  
. I don't understand why the line was coded the way it is. Why would you wait until return is complete to then move onwards to the mission landing? Why not go there in the first place? And in any case you shouldn't go there if it's not a mission landing that was selected by find_RTL_destination().  
Additional VSC debugging insights:    
The drone still enters here:   
```cpp   
 /*PX4-Autopilot/src/modules/navigator/rtl.cppLine 411  
      inf41e598*/case RTL_STATE_DESCEND: {  
```  
 but not here:   
```cpp   
 /*PX4-Autopilot/src/modules/navigator/rtl.cppLine 595  
      inf41e598*/case RTL_STATE_DESCEND:  
```  

## Comment3
### Comment author: ThomasRigi
### Comment Time: Sep 22, 2021
### Comment Content:   
Option 1 I see to fix this is to change how  _deny_mission_landing works and use it in find_RTL_destination() if it's not to mission landing that you want to fly. This would be the minimal code change version that I see.  
Option 2 would be to create a new getter function for either all of _destination or only for _destination.type and use this in   
```cpp   
 /*PX4-Autopilot/src/modules/navigator/navigator_main.cppLine 550  
      inf41e598*/if (!rtl_activated && !_rtl. denyMissionLanding () && _rtl. getClimbAndReturnDone ()  
```  
Or maybe one of you guys see an Option 3 that is better than my propositions.  
