# Basic Information:
### Title:  Using message_interval on any message stops sys_status from being transmitted #13055 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: Crowdedlight
### Issue open time: Sep 30, 2019
# Report
### Report author: Crowdedlight
### Report Time: Sep 30, 2019
### Report Content:   
Describe the bug    
sys_status do not get transmitted after using a message_interval to limit any message. I have tried limiting different messages, but no change, and sys_status is still not being transmitted. I have also tried to send message_interval for sys_status to try and force it to 1 or 5hz. But didn't have any impact.  
I checked with QGC and mavlink_inspector to verify if the message gets output.  
To Reproduce    
Steps to reproduce the behavior:  
1.Drone switched on  
2.Send a message_interval to limit some message  
3.Open QGC and mavlink_inspector and sys_status isn't being transmitted, or with very low rate. (I sometimes got 1 maybe 2 messages over 30-40sec, but often didn't get any at all)  
Rebooting the PX4 to output default messages makes the sys_status show up again, right until the next time you send message_interval.  
Expected behavior    
sys_status should not be "removed" when limiting some other message with message_interval.    
Using message_interval for the sys_status message should correctly set the rate of the sys_status message.  
Drone (please complete the following information):  
- Hexacopter platform, PX4 1.9.2.  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: dagar
### Comment Time: Sep 30, 2019
### Comment Content:   
Could you try this in current master (or v1.10 beta)?  

## Comment2
### Comment author: Crowdedlight
### Comment Time: Oct 1, 2019
### Comment Content:   
Tested on current master and tag: v1.10.0-beta1.    
Same experience. After limiting any message I do not get sys_status. I sometimes get a single sys_status 15s after the limit, but nothing more than that.  
We have also experienced that certain messages output by default can not be throttled by the message_interval command. Just gives MAV_RESULT_FAILED. Seems like it is because they are not defined as a streamlist_item if I read the source code correct.  
We experienced it with the following msg ids:    
MAVLINK_MSG_ID_RC_CHANNELS_SCALED = 34      \\# kept failing    
MAVLINK_MSG_ID_RC_CHANNELS_RAW = 35         \\# kept failing    
MAVLINK_MSG_ID_RC_CHANNELS_OVERRIDE = 70    \\# kept failing    
MAVLINK_MSG_ID_BATTERY_STATUS = 147         \\# kept failing    
MAVLINK_MSG_ID_ESTIMATOR_STATUS = 230       \\# kept failing  
(I know this is probably another issue, but trying to give as much information as possible, if it helps)  

## Comment3
### Comment author: Crowdedlight
### Comment Time: Oct 3, 2019
### Comment Content:   
Today we have experienced that using the message_interval mess with the output rate of global_position_int. When no message_interval has been sent so it output at default rates I receive global_position_int with 2hz, but as soon as message_interval is used, it drops down to inconsistent 0.3hz.  
This has only been tested on PX4 1.9.2.  

## Comment4
### Comment author: dagar
### Comment Time: Oct 3, 2019
### Comment Content:   
Could you try running mavlink status + mavlink status streams on the command line and capture the output before and after altering a message_interval?  

## Comment5
### Comment author: Crowdedlight
### Comment Time: Oct 4, 2019
### Comment Content:   
The console didn't let me copy, so I captured it as images. It clearly show that something happens with sys_status which makes it go down to a rate of 0.05hz. Global_position_int also gets limited to 0.5hz without being told to. There also seems to be some odd values at system_time, altitude, extended_sys_state and estimator_status. However, they are all messages I try to limit to 1hz. I am gonna investigate if I send a wrong interval value for those messages.  
Before limiting  
Instance 0, is the one connected to my laptop when testing    
After limiting  
    

## Comment6
### Comment author: Crowdedlight
### Comment Time: Oct 4, 2019
### Comment Content:   
It would appear that if I send 1000000 as rate for altitude then it gets limited to 1hz.  
I sent the following:  
    
```bash     
 [[MAVLINK_MSG_ID_SYSTEM_TIME, 1000000],        
[MAVLINK_MSG_ID_ALTITUDE, 1000000],        
[MAVLINK_MSG_ID_EXTENDED_SYS_STATE, 2000000]]        
```  
Which resulted in the following output. So it seems like some of the streams use a different unit for rate? Or that it somehow is backwards?    
EDIT: I am being stupid here. I somehow missed that the unit was in us, and not hz.... disregard that part of the error  

## Comment7
### Comment author: Crowdedlight
### Comment Time: Oct 4, 2019
### Comment Content:   
It would appear that sys_status works as expected. The issue was me using the wrong unit for other messages. As such I assume it started to limits messages to stay below the overall limit of bytes/s, as it expected to send other messages with a million Hz.  
Apologies for the stupid error. Gonna close the issue here. Thanks for the help :)  
