# Basic Information:
### Title:  1.12 Release everything great except Weather Vane #17911 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: taileron
### Issue open time: Jul 14, 2021
### Fixed by: #18038
# Report
### Report author: taileron
### Report Time: Jul 14, 2021
### Report Content:   
Describe the bug    
since the beginning of 2021 Weather Vane no longer works and also in the 1.12.0 release. Is there a trick to activate WV, or is something important missing?  
To Reproduce    
Convergence Airframe    
gps+HereFlow    
USB disabled to have enough ram left    
(without airspeed sensor)    
Forward Thrust enabled    
Enough wind    
enable wv    
start position, mission or rtl  
Expected behavior    
WV should work and turn the aircraft into the wind from a slight roll inclination.    
like it was in 1.11 with the same setup  
Log Files and Screenshots    
https://review.px4.io/plot_app?log=a8f081af-ee68-42a0-81e4-71768cec0ed2  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: RomanBapst
### Comment Time: Jul 14, 2021
### Comment Content:   
@taileron Is seems like weathervane support for position control flight mode was removed, I can't see it anymore.    
It should still work in RTL though.  
@MaEtUgR Can you comment on this?  

## Comment2
### Comment author: taileron
### Comment Time: Jul 14, 2021
### Comment Content:   
I love the matrix as implemented for VT_FWD_THRUST_EN.    
WV would be an extreme increase in flight safety for pos mode as soon as the aircraft is hovering on the spot in strong winds.    
Great would be WV in pos mode which would be turned off for manual forward movements.  

## Comment3
### Comment author: taileron
### Comment Time: Jul 26, 2021
### Comment Content:   
@MaEtUgR I just don't fully understand the logic in the code yet. Lateral movements are taken into account, but where can I find that WV is only activated on rtl? This could also be the reason why during the last descent of the rtl procedure for landing, the aircraft turns around its axis when there is only little wind. How can I check if or when WV is active in flight and if it is working and set correctly?  

## Comment4
### Comment author: VTOLDavid
### Comment Time: Jul 29, 2021
### Comment Content:   
    
@taileron Is seems like weathervane support for position control flight mode was removed, I can't see it anymore.      
It should still work in RTL though.    
@MaEtUgR Can you comment on this?    
Why it was removed? It is useful in position mode  

## Comment5
### Comment author: dagar
### Comment Time: Aug 8, 2021
### Comment Content:   
We need to implement the yaw handler for FlightTaskManualAcceleration.  
```cpp   
 /*PX4-Autopilot/src/modules/flight_mode_manager/tasks/ManualPosition/FlightTaskManualPosition.hppLines 55 to 58  
      inc8366e7*//* * * Sets an external yaw handler which can be used to implement a different yaw control strategy. */ void setYawHandler (WeatherVane *yaw_handler) override { _weathervane_yaw_handler = yaw_handler; }  
```  
https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot/blob/master/src/modules/flight_mode_manager/tasks/ManualAcceleration/FlightTaskManualAcceleration.hpp  

## Comment6
### Comment author: taileron
### Comment Time: Aug 10, 2021
### Comment Content:   
I made this change into V1.12.1 and WV now works very well in pos mode.    
Flight tested even with little wind.    
This 2 lines have to be different compared to the original pr:    
File: FTMA.hpp    
60 private:    
61    void _ekfResetHandlerPositionXY() override;    
62    void _ekfResetHandlerVelocityXY() override;  
I can download and provide logs later.    
Next I will test the original pr (1.13.0) as well.  
