# Basic Information:
### Title:  Software-In-Hardware (SIH) broken on git head #20783 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: wluker
### Issue open time: Dec 15, 2022
### Fixed by: #20855
# Report
### Report author: wluker
### Report Time: Dec 15, 2022
### Report Content:   
Describe the bug  
Sensors are now missing in the software-in-hardware (SIH) mode.    
Probably since commits 8f25acd bfe0d71 c5336ab and 99a2064 ?  
To Reproduce  
Steps to reproduce the behavior:  
1.In QGS set the Airframe to SIH Quadcopter X  
2.After reboot QGC reports barometer 0 missing and compass sensor 0 missing.  
3.Drone won't fly due to pre-flight checks.  
Expected behavior  
Should be able to arm and fly.  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: dagar
### Comment Time: Dec 15, 2022
### Comment Content:   
I've been using it in SITL (we need to rename SIH at this point). What board are you using?  

## Comment2
### Comment author: wluker
### Comment Time: Dec 15, 2022
### Comment Content:   
    
What board are you using?    
Right, I should have mentioned that. Pixhawk 4  

## Comment3
### Comment author: wluker
### Comment Time: Dec 15, 2022
### Comment Content:   
And QGC v4.2.3 if that matters.  

## Comment4
### Comment author: TompsonTan
### Comment Time: Jan 3, 2023
### Comment Content:   
@dagar its because sensor_gps_sim not started.  should add    sensor_gps_sim start   to rcs  

## Comment5
### Comment author: bresch
### Comment Time: Jan 3, 2023
### Comment Content:   
I had the same issue a couple of weeks ago, I just pushed the fix  
