# Basic Information:
### Title:  v1.14 firmware motor spin very noisy(without propeller), restart flight controller can fix it randomly #21625 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: TianmingLi
### Issue open time: May 23, 2023
# Report
### Report author: TianmingLi
### Report Time: May 23, 2023
### Report Content:   
Describe the bug  
v1.14 firmware motor spin very noisy(without propeller), restart(reconnected battery power supply) flight controller can fix it randomly.  
To Reproduce  
Steps to reproduce the behavior:  
1.Flash last main branch(Developer build master) firmware in QGC  
2.Set viechle up  
3.Switch to Stabilized mode  
4.Arm vehicle  
5.Push up throttle  
6.Push down throttle  
Expected behavior  
With throttle push up or down, the motor will spin smoothly and simultaneously without jerk.  
Log Files and Screenshots  
Random bad one  
Log file  
    
      
        
VID_20230522_171526_1.mp4      
      
Random good one  
Log file  
    
      
        
VID_20230523_111849_1.mp4      
      
Push throttle through QGC, the motor works fine  
    
      
        
VID_20230522_174228_1.mp4      
      
Drone (please complete the following information):  
-     
Flight controller : CUAV V6X    
-     
Describe the type of drone: Quad copter.    
-     
Photo of the IMU / autopilot setup if possible.    
Additional context  
Before assembling this drone, we had assembled another drone just like the drone in the video. it had same problem, but, after several  restarting, the problem did not show again.  
After flashing v1.13 firmware to the drone in the video, we tried restart and test it 5 times, it always worked fine.  
The same problem had happened before on a Hex cube orange flight controller drone Issue . At that time, v1.13 firmware  had no problem, and v1.14 firmware behavior just like this time.  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: TianmingLi
### Comment Time: May 23, 2023
### Comment Content:   
After we switch ESC pwm channel  from MAIN to AUX, and re-flash firmware to v1.14, three drone which had  problem, the problem gone. we tested several times each, they are always fine.   
We will do more test later, and hope this will solve the problem  
