# Basic Information:
### Title:  [VTOL] 0° yaw/heading after back transition in mission #16305 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: ThomasRigi
### Issue open time: Nov 30, 2020
### Fixed by: #16335
# Report
### Report author: ThomasRigi
### Report Time: Nov 30, 2020
### Report Content:   
Describe the bug    
In mission mode, just after a back transition the VTOL (quadplane) always yaws towards due north. This 0° yaw setpoint only changes once the drone moves on to the next waypoint.  
Present in v1.11.2 and on current master. In SITL and on a real drone.  
To Reproduce    
Steps to reproduce the behavior:  
1.Drone switched on. Both make px4_sitl gazebo_standard_vtol and a real drone  
2.Uploaded mission:    
RC club many transitions.zip  
3.Start the mission  
4.Observe the yaw after back transitions.  
Expected behavior    
The drone should either  
- keep its current heading  
- use the heading as calculated normally in the MPC trajectory generation  
- weathervane    
like in v1.10.1 : https://logs.px4.io/plot_app?log=9ba19728-7ba2-4250-8884-e39e3c6a1d7f  
Log Files and Screenshots    
-Real quadplane: https://logs.px4.io/plot_app?log=3b4e3749-8b0e-44a2-9e9b-74b329b3dbab (ignore after 6:00)    
-SITL, v1.11.2: https://logs.px4.io/plot_app?log=21bdc8c9-9cfc-4964-90aa-2f123ebb70f6    
-SITL, master: https://logs.px4.io/plot_app?log=cc6301a2-0a6f-4100-a973-128cb7784ddf    
-SITL, v1.11.2, other flight modes: https://logs.px4.io/plot_app?log=74ae49e6-1d82-4a2f-81ee-2fb387cacd1c (no enforced 0° yaw)  
Useless 360 after back transition:    
Drone (please complete the following information):  
- Quadplane with Pixhawk 4, v1.11.2  
- Gazebo Standard VTOL  
Additional context    
I could only reproduce this in mission mode (see 4th log).  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: ThomasRigi
### Comment Time: Dec 4, 2020
### Comment Content:   
After some git bisect I could pin down the change to 574b482 @sfuhrer @dagar  
The weathervane was only reactivated after a VTOL Takeoff & Transition command, not after a plain VTOL transition command.  
Fix in \\\#16335  

## Comment2
### Comment author: moreba1
### Comment Time: Dec 4, 2020
### Comment Content:   
yes , it is correct.  
