# Basic Information:
### Title:  Frsky Telemetry not working on Holybro Kakute F7 #14802 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: benjinne
### Issue open time: Apr 30, 2020
# Report
### Report author: benjinne
### Report Time: Apr 30, 2020
### Report Content:   
When trying to use any of the UARTs on the Kakute, and configuring TEL_FRSKY_CONFIG to the matching tx pin no sensors (other than rxbat and rssi) are discovered on my transmitter (a Jumper T16).  
To Reproduce    
Steps to reproduce the behavior:  
1.Set TEL_FRSKY_CONFIG  
2.Discover new Sensors on transmitter  
Expected behavior    
A list of sensors should be displayed on the transmitter  
*Other steps I tried  
1.using the non-inverted smart-port pad on my r-xsr  
2.verifying packets are being sent using "frsky_telemetry status"  
3.changing the mode using "frsky_telemetry -m" to both sport and sport_single  
4.tried rewiring to UARTs 1,2,3,6 and changing TEL_FRSKY_CONFIG  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: dagar
### Comment Time: May 1, 2020
### Comment Content:   
Any thoughts on this @bkueng?  

## Comment2
### Comment author: bkueng
### Comment Time: May 4, 2020
### Comment Content:   
Yes it requires NuttX changes to make this work on F7 - I'm still waiting on @davids5 for testing it.  

## Comment3
### Comment author: justas-
### Comment Time: May 14, 2020
### Comment Content:   
Affects Kakute F7 AIO as well.  

## Comment4
### Comment author: benjinne
### Comment Time: May 14, 2020
### Comment Content:   
    
Affects Kakute F7 AIO as well.    
That's what I'm using  

## Comment5
### Comment author: bys1123
### Comment Time: Jun 24, 2020
### Comment Content:   
@bkueng Is this F7 NuttX change required include fmuv5?  

## Comment6
### Comment author: justas-
### Comment Time: Jun 30, 2020
### Comment Content:   
Are there any updates on this?  

## Comment7
### Comment author: davids5
### Comment Time: Jun 30, 2020
### Comment Content:   
Sorry - I am running behind on getting to it.  

## Comment8
### Comment author: davids5
### Comment Time: Aug 8, 2020
### Comment Content:   
The fix for this is un \\\#15492 that was merged. If this is not resolved please re-open  
