# Basic Information:
### Title:  Cube Black does not recognize Here2 or Here3 over CAN #16129 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: ValentineStone
### Issue open time: Nov 5, 2020
# Report
### Report author: ValentineStone
### Report Time: Nov 5, 2020
### Report Content:   
Describe the bug    
A Cube Black running PX4 does not recognize either Here2 or Here3 connected to CAN port.  
To Reproduce    
Steps to reproduce the behavior:  
1.Flash Cube Black's firmware to either PX4 1.11.1 or 1.10.1  
2.Connect Here2 or Here3 to CAN1 or CAN2 port  
3.See Here2/3 lights turn blue before quickly turning off  
4.Go to MAVLink Inspector  
5.See GPS_RAW_INT messages with fix_type 0 - GPS_FIX_TYPE_NO_GPS  
Expected behavior  
- GPS_RAW_INT messages should have fix_type other than 0, since there is GPS module connected  
- Here2/3 lights should be flashing green  
Log Files and Screenshots  
GPS_RAW_INT with status of no GPS found  
MAVLink console, uavcan status. Sorry, could not figure out how to get this as file or text  
    
Drone:  
- Just the cube and gps modules  
Additional context  
- This is probably not V1.11.1: GPS over UAVCAN not detected \\\\\#16113, for I tested with both px4 1.10.1 and 1.11.1, and neither worked.  
- This also is likely not linked to Here2-switching-to-CAN-mode-debacle like in Here2 GPS/mag over UAVCAN not working \\\\\#13609, my Here2 is recent, has the latest firmware and CAN connector out of the box (its rev 2.2)  
- I also tested with both static and dynamic Node ID for both GPS modules, as outlined here https://docs.cubepilot.org/user-guides/here-3/here-3-manual\\\#2-using-px4-firmware , did not seem to help.  
- Might be something like what @mwiatt was having in Here 2 GPS Not Detected \\\\\#12592 - Here2 not being detected when using CAN, don't know if they got it working since then though.  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: mattpaddock
### Comment Time: Nov 6, 2020
### Comment Content:   
I've used the Here2 on 1.10.1 over CAN with no issues. Have not tried with 1.11.1, but Here2 does not work properly with 1.11.1 on I2C either (\\\#16035).  
@ValentineStone Just to mention the most common reason I've seen people have issues with Here2 CAN... the internal switch on the Here2 board is set to CAN mode and not I2C? Some come from factory in CAN mode and some come from factory in I2C mode. I've got about ~40 of the Here2's and I swear they change every time.  

## Comment2
### Comment author: JacobCrabill
### Comment Time: Nov 6, 2020
### Comment Content:   
@ValentineStone the output of uavcan status that you posted is showing that the Here2 is working properly.  You'll need to look at the uORB data being published to see more details (listener sensor_mag  /  listener vehicle_gps_position)  

## Comment3
### Comment author: ValentineStone
### Comment Time: Nov 17, 2020
### Comment Content:   
@mattpaddock Yeah, I disassembled the module and checked for that, I have a rev 2.2, it does not have that issue.    
@JacobCrabill Well, turns out you are right, it is working.  
I was assuming that fix_type in GPS_RAW_INT messages confirmed to the GPS_FIX_TYPE enum, and 0 means no GPS connected:  
A colleague of mine who has way more experience with px4 than me just brought the thing outside, where it would be able to acquire GPS fix, and it did, despite the 0 in fix_type.  
So, GPS is working, but px4 does seem to not confirm to the MAVLink spec here, I might create an issue for that instead, not sure if I it is something deserving of an issue though.  

## Comment4
### Comment author: mrpollo
### Comment Time: Mar 2, 2021
### Comment Content:   
@ValentineStone did you ever create the issue mentioned above?  

## Comment5
### Comment author: ValentineStone
### Comment Time: Mar 3, 2021
### Comment Content:   
@mrpollo No, never got around to it, my company switched to Ardupilot for external reasons, so I didn't have any time to spend on PX4 since then.  
