# Basic Information:
### Title:  Fixed-wing position controller not ouputting attitude setpoints if GPS switched off in altitude mode #14243 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: sfuhrer
### Issue open time: Feb 26, 2020
### Fixed by: #14245
# Report
### Report author: sfuhrer
### Report Time: Feb 26, 2020
### Report Content:   
Describe the bug    
Fixed-wing altitude mode doesn't work without GPS data because it seems to run only with a valid global position.    
It is though currently possible to switch to altitude flight mode (at least for a VTOL) without a GPS connected.  
To Reproduce    
In sitl, fly a VTOL in fixed-wing mode or a plane, and disable GPS fusing in air by setting the EKF2_AID_MASK to 0. Switch to stabilized and back to altitude mode.  
Expected behavior    
I expect that altitude flight mode works without issues after a GPS loss (at least with valid baro data).    
Till we have that we should disable the ability to switch to altitude flight mode if you don't have a valid global position (resp. for VTOL disable transition to FW mode in altitude mode).  
Log Files and Screenshots    
This is a sitl flight where I disabled GPS fusing in air (by setting the EKF2_AID_MASK to 0). When then switching out and in again into altitude flight mode, the attidue sp and control signals are frozen.    
https://review.px4.io/plot_app?log=3cfedd2d-14e0-4f6f-8afd-781823577aa6  
Add screenshots to help explain your problem.  
Additional context    
I became aware of this problem recently while flying a VTOL without GPS sensor.  
Should we maybe split TECS and L1 into separate modules @RomanBapst @dagar ? Just as an effort to disentangle this all a bit.  

# Comment