# Basic Information:
### Title:  FMUv4 pro - incorrect voltage measurement on battery port2 #15069 
### Issue status: Closed
### Author: steffensol
### Issue open time: Jun 9, 2020
# Report
### Report author: steffensol
### Report Time: Jun 9, 2020
### Report Content:   
Describe the bug    
Running PX4 1.10:  
Battery 1 shows correct voltage, and battery 2 shows incorrect voltage in QGC (and in mavlink-messages).    
Battery 2's lower-than-expected voltage is leading to low battery-percentage situations.  
When connecting up a Drotek p3 pro with the drotek power management unit (Dual battery monitors) - we are getting two battery (Analog ADC voltage and current) measurements in PX4 1.10 - which is as expected with the dual input of the p3 pro and dual measurements of the PMU.  
After setting up the offsets/scaling factors correctly (and measuring the power-monitor outputs to be equal with voltmeter)    
The first battery's measurements are correct - However, the second battery's measurements are always measuring a much lower voltage. The difference can typically be 49V for battery1, on a fresh 12S lipo - versus 41V for battery2. Switching power monitor inputs 1/2 does not alter the results - measurements stay at same values.  
To Reproduce    
Steps to reproduce the behavior:    
Drotek p3 pro FC    
Drotek power management pro connected to power port 1 and 2 on Drotek p3 pro FC.    
Set scaling factors according to manufacturer.    
Apply voltage to drone    
Apply voltmeter to Power-manager individual outputs and verify same input voltage for autopilot ADCs.    
Turn on drone and QGC should show two batteries.  
Battery 1 will show voltage equal to actual battery voltage(Vref & Vbat1).    
Battery 2 will show a lower-than-battery-voltage (Vbat2).  
Through adjusting voltages (Vref), we've found that there is always a multiplication factor of 1.20 between the measured voltages (Vbat1/Vbat2).  
Expected behavior    
Battery 1 should show correct voltage (~50v for a full 12s)    
Battery 2 should show correct voltage (~50v for a full 12s)  
Battery percentage estimate should be stable, and ideally there should be a description of how the system handles the two batteries. Especially considering the 1.10 release doesn't have parameters to set up a second battery measurement, with its capacity, resistance etc.  
Log Files and Screenshots    
No flight logs done, all ground testing. Can provide ground testing values if strictly needed.  
Additional context  
Between multiple vehicle's there also seems to be a difference in which battery is chosen as the "main" battery, or how weighting is applied between the two batteries - because the battery % estimate in QGC drops much faster for one vehicle versus another, with exact same HW setup and batteries. (Yes, also when switching the physical batteries between the two vehicles)  
Either fixing measurement on Bat2 so that it is correct, or removing the measurement completely would solve the issue.  
@dagar - Here's the issue discussed on slack. Thanks alot for looking into it.  

# Comment
## Comment1
### Comment author: helgeanl
### Comment Time: Jun 10, 2020
### Comment Content:   
I performed some tests and it seems like the main problem is that the QGC battery status widget shows the wrong data, while the battery estimation in the flight controller is correct.  
Test setup:  
- PX4 1.10.1 and 1.11.0 beta 2  
- QGC 4.0.5  
- Same hardware setup as the post above, tested with a load on individual and both of the power modules.  
With power connected to only one of the power modules, the correct state can be found when listening to the uorb messages or battery_status mavlink message. The voltage is the same as they are wired in parallel, but only current consumption in the first battery, and as a consequence lower capacity remaining.  
Battery 1    
Battery 2    
The problem we see is that QGC uses the mavlink message wrong as seen in the attached image. In the battery status widget, battery 1 info is shown in the large font, while battery 2 use the small font in the bottom. We would expect that both voltages are the same as seen above, but battery 1 is 1.2 times larger than battery 2. From what we found this seems to be because QGC has to multiply the cell voltage in the battery_status mavlink message. With our setup using 12s batteries (12 cells), the battery 1 voltage is correct, while battery 2 in QGC is calculated using a factor of 10 (10 cells), instead of 12. I don't know if this is some hardcoded number in QGC or based on that the mavlink message only provides a maximum of 10 cell voltages.  
To add to the confusion, voltage/current/percentage in the QGC battery widget is not quite stable in regard to what is battery 1 and 2. One or all three seem to switch between what is battery 1 and battery 2 in a seemingly arbitrary matter.  
To summarize:  
- QGC battery 2 voltage is wrong when using 12s batteries  
- It doesn't look like the QGC battery widget actually use the battery index to show the correct values, and selects values for the different fields in a seemingly arbitrary way.  

## Comment2
### Comment author: stale
### Comment Time: Sep 11, 2020
### Comment Content:   
This issue has been automatically marked as stale because it has not had recent activity. Thank you for your contributions.  

## Comment3
### Comment author: LorenzMeier
### Comment Time: Jan 2, 2021
### Comment Content:   
Is the issue still present in QGC? If yes, please file an issue in its issue tracker, ping me there and reference this one. Thanks!  
